HOMOEOPATHIC MATERIA MEDICA 
by William BOERICKE, M.D. 

PREFACE TO THE NINTH EDITION 

In preparing the ninth edition of this work, I have 
followed the lines laid out for all the previous editions, 
namely, to present in a condensed form the homceopathic 
Materia Medica for practical use. 

The book contains the well known verified characteristic 
symptoms of all our medicines besides other less important 
symptoms aiding the selection of the curative remedy, All the 
new medicines and essentials of the published clinical 
experience of the school have been added. In its present 
compact form it contains the maximum number of reliable 
Materia Medica facts in the minimum space. 

I have tried to give a succinct resume of the 

William Boericke 
1849-1929, US symptomatology of every medicine used in Homeopathy, 

including also clinical suggestions of many drugs so far not yet 
based on provings, thus offering the opportunity to experiment with these and by future provings 
discover their distinctive use and so enlarging our armamentarium. 

I am aware that there is a difference of opinion about the advisability of further 
introduction of remedies, especially of such as seem obsolete or to some minds illusory. But it is 
not for the compiler to leave out information about any substance that has received the clinical 
endorsement from a reliable source. 

Our Materia Medica must include all substances which have been proved and which have 
been used with apparent efficacy. It rests with the individual student to judge for himself the accuracy 
and, reliability of such observation. In this connection, I cannot forego to avail myself 
of the high authority of that master of Homceopathy, Dr. Constantine Hering, favoring the 
introduction of all remedies capable of producing reactions in the body that may guide to their 
medicinal employment. "Homeopathy is essentially not only many-sided but all-sided. She 
investigates the action of all substances, whether articles of diet, beverages, condiments, drugs or 
poisons. She investigates their action on the healthy, the sick, animals and plants. She gives; a 
new interpretation to that ancient, oft quoted saying of Paul, Prove all things--a new meaning, a 
new application that acts universally. Elimination of the useless may gradually take place with 
the growth of accurate physiological and pathological knowledge." 

Again, imperfectly proved remedies necessitate the use of names of diseases at times 
instead of the component symptoms that alone are the legitimate guide to the choice of the 
curative remedy. Here, too, I have Hering as pioneer guide for the ligitimacy of this method, 
which he also followed in his great work, the Guiding Symptoms. He said that he used the 
disease designations not for the purpose of recommending the particular remedy for that disease, 
but to show the great variety of remedies that may be used for any form of disease when 
otherwise indicated. For the same reason I have included nosological terms in the 
symptomatology and Therapeutic Index, as this is a practical handbook for every-day service, 
and any aid for finding the curative remedy ought to be utilized. As Dr. J. Compton Burnett 
expresses it: 

"The fact is we need any and every way of finding the right remedy; the simple simile, the 
simple symptomatic similimum and the farthest reach of all-the pathologic similimum, and I 
maintain that we are still well within the line- of Homceopathy that is expansive, progressive, 
science fostered and science fostering." 

The dosage needs some apology. It is, of course, suggestive only; more often to be wholly 
disregarded. I have followed the lines of the earlier Homceopathists in this regard, and given 
what was then considered the usual range of potency, to which I have added my own experience 
and that of many observing practitioners. Every teacher of Materia Medica is constantly 
importuned by students to suggest the potency--something to start with at least. 

The book is in no sense a treatise, and must not be considered or judged as such. It is as accurate 
and reliable a compilation and the fullest collection of verified Materia Medica facts and clinical 
suggestions as it is possible to obtain within the compass of the volume. It supplements every 
other work on Materia Medica, and if used as a ready reminder of the essential facts of our vast 
symptomatology and as an introduction to the larger books of reference and record of 
provings, it will fulfill its purpose and prove a useful aid to the student and general practitioner. 
As such it is again offered with much appreciation of past endorsement to his professional 
brethren. 

I have been aided in seeing this edition through the press by the efficient help of Mr. F. O. 
Ernesty, who has lightened the labor of making the manuscript more acceptable to the printers, 
and I desire to express my hearty appreciation of this kind and helpful service. 

ABIES CANADENSIS-PINUS CANADENSIS 
Hemlock Spruce 
Mucous membranes are affected by Abies can and gastric symptoms are most marked, and a 
catarrhal condition of the stomach is produced. There are peculiar cravings and chilly sensations 
that are very characteristic, especially for women with uterine displacement, probably due to 
defective nutrition with debility. Respiration and heart action labored. Wants to lie down all the 
time; skin cold and clammy, hands cold; very faint. Right lung and liver feel small and hard. 
Gleet. 
Head.--Feels light-headed, tipsy. Irritable. 
Stomach.--Canine hunger with torpid liver. Gnawing, hungry, faint feeling at the epigastrium. 
Great appetite, craving for meat, pickles, radishes, turnips, artichokes, coarse food. Tendency to 
eat far beyond capacity for digestion. Burning and distention of stomach and abdomen with 
palpitation. Flatulence disturbs the heart's action. Pain in right shoulder-blade, and constipation, 
with burning in rectum. 
Female.--Uterine displacements. Sore feeling at fundus of uterus, relieved by pressure. 
Prostration; wants to lie down all the time. Thinks womb is soft and feeble. 
Fever.--Cold shivering, as if blood were ice-water (Acon). Chills run down back. Cold water 
feeling between shoulders (Ammon mur). Skin clammy and sticky. Night-sweat (China). 
Dose.--First to third potency. 

ABIES NIGRA 
Black Spruce 
A powerful and long-acting remedy, in various forms of disease, whenever the characteristic 
stomach symptoms are present. Most of the symptoms are associated with the gastric 
disturbances. /n dyspeptic troubles of the aged, with functional heart symptoms; also after tea or 
tobacco. Constipation. Pain in external meatus. 
Head.--Hot, with flushed cheeks. Low-spirited. Dull during the day, wakeful at night. Unable to 
think. 
Stomach.--Pain in stomach always comes on after eating. Sensation of a lump that hurts, as ifa 
hard-boiled egg had lodged in cardiac end of stomach; continual distressing constriction just 
above the pit of the stomach, as if everything were knotted up. Total loss of appetite in morning, 
but great craving for food at noon and night. Offensive breath. Eructations. 
Chest.--Painful sensation, as if something were lodged in the chest and had to be coughed up; 
lungs feel compressed. Cannot be fully expanded. Worse coughing; waterbrash succeeds cough. 
Choking sensation in throat. Dyspnoea; worse lying down; sharp, cutting pain in heart; heart's 
action heavy and slow; tachycardia, bradycardia. 
Back.--Pain in small of back. Rheumatic pains and aching in bones. 
Sleep.--Wakeful and restless at night, with hunger. Bad dreams. 
Fever.--Alternate heat and cold; chronic intermittent fever, with pain in stomach. 
Modalities.-- Worse after eating. 
Relationship.--Compare: (Lump in stomach--China, Bryon, Pulsat); also other Conifers-- Thuja, 
Sabina, Cupressus (painful indigestion) also Nux vom, Kali carb. 
Dose.--First to thirtieth potency. 

ABRUS PRECATORIUS -- JEQUIRITY 
Crab's Eye Vine 
(JEQUIRITY - ARBRUS PRECATORIUS) 
Epithelioma, lupus, ulcers, granular lids. 
Eyes.--Purulent conjunctivitis; inflammation spreads to face and neck. Granular ophthalmia. 
Keratitis. 
Relationship.--Compare: Jequiritol (in cases of trachoma and pannus to engraft a new purulent 
inflammation. The proteid poisons contained in Jequirity seeds are almost identical in their 
physiological and toxic properties with the similar principles found in snake venom). 
Dose.--Mother tincture diluted locally and 3x internally. 

ABROTANUM 
Southernwood 
A very useful remedy in marasmus, especially of lower extremities only, yet with good appetite. 
Metastasis. Rheumatism following checked diarrheea. Ill effects of suppressed conditions 
especially in gouty subjects. Tuberculous peritonitis. Exudative pleurisy and other exudative 
processes. After operation upon the chest for hydrothorax or empyzmia, a pressing sensation 
remains. Aggravation of hemorrhoids when rheumatism improves. Nosebleed and hydrocele in 
boys. 
Great weakness after influenza (Kali phos). 
Mind.-—Cross, irritable, anxious, depressed. 
Face.--Wrinkled, cold, dry, pale. Blue rings around dull-looking eyes. Comedones, with 
emaciation. Nosebleed. Angioma of the face. 
Stomach.--Slimy taste. Appetite good, but emaciation progresses. Food passes undigested. Pain 
in stomach; worse at night; cutting, gnawing pain. Stomach feels as if swimming in water; feels 
cold. Gnawing hunger and whining. Indigestion, with vomiting of large quantities of offensive 
fluid. 
Abdomen.--Hard lumps in abdomen. Distended. Alternate diarrhoea and constipation. 
Hemorrhoids; frequent urging; bloody stools; worse as rheumatic pains abate. Ascarides. Oozing 
from umbilicus. Sensation as if bowels were sinking down. 
Respiratory.--Raw feeling. Impeded respiration. Dry cough following diarrhoea. Pain across 
chest; severe in region of heart. 
Back.--Neck so weak cannot hold head up. Back lame, weak, and painful. Pain in lumbar region 
extending along spermatic cord. Pain in sacrum, with hemorrhoids. 
Extremities.--Pain in shoulders, arms, wrists, and ankles. Pricking and coldness in fingers and 
feet. Legs greatly emaciated. Joints stiff and lame. Painful contraction of limbs (Amm mur). 
Skin.--Eruptions come out on face; are suppressed, and the skin becomes purplish. Skin flabby 
and loose. Furuncles. Falling out of hair. Itching chilblains. 
Modalities.--Worse, cold air, checked secretions. Better, motion. 
Relationship.--Compare: Scrophularia; Bryonia; Stellaria; Benzoic acid, in gout. Iodine, Natr 
mur in marasmus. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. 

ABSINTHIUM 
Common Wormwood 
A perfect picture of epileptiform seizure is produced by this drug. Nervous tremors precede 
attacks. Sudden and severe giddiness, delirium with hallucinations and loss of consciousness. 
Nervous excitement and sleeplessness. Cerebral irritation, hysterical and infantile spasms come 
within range of this remedy. Poisoning by mushrooms. Chorea. Tremor. Nervousness, 
excitement, and sleeplessness in children. 
Mind.-Hallucinations. Frightful visions. Kleptomania. Loss of memory. Forgets what has 
recently happened. Wants nothing to do with anybody. Brutal. 
Head.--Vertigo, with tendency to fall backward. General confusion. Wants head low. Pupils 
dilated unequally. Face blue. Spasmodic facial twitching. Dull occipital headache (Ge/sem, 
Picric ac). 
Mouth.—Jaws fixed. Bites tongue; trembles; feels as if swollen and too large; protruding. 
Throat.--Scalded sensation; as of a lump. 
Stomach.--Nausea; retching; eructation. Bloated around waist and abdomen. Wind colic. 
Urine.--Constant desire. Very strong odor; deep yellow color (Kali phos). 
Sexual.--Darting pain in right ovary. Spermatorrhoea, with relaxed, enfeebled parts. Premature 
menopause. 
Chest.--Sensation of weight on chest. Irregular, tumultuous action of heart can be heard in back. 
Extremities.--Pain in limbs. Paralytic symptoms. 
Relationship.--Compare: Alcohol; Artemisia; Hydrocy acid; Cina; Cicuta. 
Dose.--First to sixth potency. 

ACALYPHA INDICA 
Indian Nettle 
A drug having a marked action on the alimentary canal and respiratory organs. It is indicated in 
incipient phthisis, with hard, racking cough, bloody expectoration, arterial haemorrhage, but no 
febrile disturbance. Very weak in the morning, gains strength during day. Progressive 
emaciation. All pathological hemorrhages having notably a morning aggravation. 
Chest.--Cough dry, hard, followed by hemoptysis; worse in morning and at night. Constant and 
severe pain in chest. Blood bright red and not profuse in morning; dark and clotted in afternoon. 
Pulse soft and compressible. Burning in pharynx, cesophagus, and stomach. 
Abdomen.--Burning in intestines. Spluttering diarrhea with forcible expulsion of noisy flatus, 
bearing down pains and tenesmus. Rumbling distention, and griping pain in abdomen. Rectal 
heemorrhage; worse in morning. 
Skin.--Jaundice. Itching and circumscribed furuncle-like swellings. 
Modalities.-- Worse in morning. 
Relationship.--Compare: Millefol; Phosphor; Acetic acid; Kali nit. 
Dose.--Third to sixth potency. 

ACETICUM ACIDUM 
Glacial Acetic Acid 
(ACETIC ACID) 
This drug produces a condition of profound anemia, with some dropsical symptoms, great 
debility, frequent fainting, dyspnoea, weak heart, vomiting, profuse urination and sweat. 
Hemorrhage from any part. Especially indicated in pale, lean persons, with lax, flabby muscles. 
Wasting and debility. Acetic acid has the power to liquefy albuminous and fibrinous deposits. 
Epithelial cancer, internally and locally (W Owens). Sycosis with nodules and formations in the 
joints. Hard chancre. The 1x solution will soften and cause formation of pus. 
Mind.--Irritable, worried about business affairs. 
Head.--Nervous headache, from abuse of narcotics. Blood rushes to head with delirium. 
Temporal vessels distended. Pain across root of tongue. 
Face.--Pale, waxen, emaciated. Eyes sunken, surrounded by dark rings. Bright red. Sweaty. 
Epithelioma of lip. Cheeks hot and flushed. Aching in left jaw-point. 
Stomach.--Salivation. Fermentation in stomach. Intense burning thirst. Cold drinks distress. 
Vomits after every kind of food. Epigastric tenderness. Burning pain as of an ulcer. Cancer of 
stomach. Sour belching and vomiting. Burning waterbrash and profuse salivation. 
Hyperchlorhydria and gastralgia. Violent burning pain in stomach and chest, followed by 
coldness of skin and cold sweat on forehead. Stomach feels as if she had taken a lot of vinegar. 
Abdomen.--Feels as if abdomen was sinking in. Frequent watery stools, worse in morning. 
Tympanitic. Ascites. Hemorrhage from bowels. 
Urine.--Large quantities of pale urine. Diabetes, with great thirst and debility (Phos ac). 
Female.--Excessive catamenia. Hemorrhages after labor. Nausea of pregnancy. Breasts 
painfully enlarged, distended with milk. Milk impoverished, bluish, transparent, sour. Anzemia of 
nursing mothers. 
Respiratory.--Hoarse, hissing respiration; difficult breathing; cough when inhaling. 
Membranous croup. Irritation of trachea and bronchial tubes. False membrane in throat. Profuse 
bronchorrheea. Putrid sore throat (gargle). 
Back.--Pain in back, relieved only by lying on abdomen. 
Extremities.--Emaciation. Edema of feet and legs. 
Skin.--Pale, waxen, cedematous. Burning, dry, hot skin, or bathed in profuse sweat. Diminished 
sensibility of the surface of body. Useful after stings, bites, etc. Varicose swellings. Scurvy; 
anasarca. Bruises; sprains. 
Fever.--Hectic, with drenching night-sweats. Red spot on left cheek. No thirst in fever. 
Ebullitions. Sweat profuse, cold. 
Relationship.--Acetic acid is antidotal to all anzesthetic vapors. Counteracts sausage poisoning. 
Compare: Ammon acet (Profuse saccharine urine, patient is bathed in sweat). Benzoin 
oderiferum--Spice-wood (night sweats). Ars; China; Digitalis; Liatris (General anasarca in 
heart and kidney disease, dropsy, and chronic diarrhoea). 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. Not to be repeated too often, except in croup. 

ACETANILIDUM 
Antifebrinum 
Depresses heart, respiration and blood pressure, lowers temperature. Cyanosis and collapse. 
Increased susceptibility to cold. Destroys red blood corpuscles; pallor. 
Head.--Enlarged sensation. Fainting. Moral depravity. 
Eyes.--Pallor of optic discs, contracted visual field and shrinking retinal vessel; mydriasis. 
Heart.--Weak, irregular, with blue mucous membranes, albuminuria, cedema of feet and ankles. 
Relationship.--Compare: Antipyrin. 
Dose.--Used as a sedative and antipyretic for various forms of headache and neuralgia in doses 
of one to three grains. For the homeopathic indications use the third potency. 

ACONITUM NAPELLUS 
Monkshood 
A state of fear, anxiety; anguish of mind and body. Physical and mental restlessness, fright, is 
the most characteristic manifestation of Aconite. Acute, sudden, and violent invasion, with fever, 
call for it. Does not want to be touched. Sudden and great sinking of strength. Complaints and 
tension caused by exposure to dry, cold weather, draught of cold air, checked perspiration, also 
complaints from very hot weather, especially gastro-intestinal disturbances, etc. First remedy in 
inflammations, inflammatory fevers. Serous membranes and muscular tissues affected markedly. 
Burning in internal parts; tingling, coldness and numbness. Influenza. Tension of arteries; 
emotional and physical mental tension explain many symptoms. When prescribing Aconite 
remember Aconite causes only functional disturbance, no evidence that it can produce tissue 
change--its action is brief and shows no periodicity. Its sphere is in the beginning of an acute 
disease and not to be continued after pathological change comes. In Hypereemia, congestion not 
after exudation has set in. Influenza (Influenzin) 
Mind.--Great fear, anxiety, and worry accompany every ailment, however trivial. Delirium is 
characterized by unhappiness worry, fear, raving, rarely unconsciousness. Forebodings and 
fears. Fears death but believes that he will soon die; predicts the day. Fears the future, a crowd, 
crossing the street. Restlessness, tossing about. Tendency to start. Imagination acute, 
clairvoyance. Pains are intolerable; they drive him crazy. Music is unbearable; makes her sad 
(Ambra). Thinks his thoughts come from the stomach--that parts of his body are abnormally 
thick. Feels as if what had just been done was a dream. 
Head.--Fullness; heavy, pulsating, hot, bursting, burning undulating sensation. Intercranial 
pressure (Hedera Helix). Burning headache, as if brain were moved by boiling water (/ndigo). 
Vertigo; worse on rising (Nux. Opium) and shaking head. Sensation on vertex as if hair were 
pulled or stood on end. Nocturnal furious delirium. 
Eyes.--Red, inflamed. Feel dry and hot, as if sand in them. Lids swollen, hard and red. Aversion 
to light. Profuse watering after exposure to dry, cold winds, reflection from snow, after 
extraction of cinders and other foreign bodies. 
Ears.--Very sensitive to noises; music is unbearable. External ear hot, red, painful, swollen. 
Earache (Cham). Sensation as of drop of water in left ear. 
Nose.--Smell acutely sensitive. Pain at root of nose. Coryza much sneezing; throbbing in nostrils. 
Hemorrhage of bright red blood. Mucous membrane dry, nose stopped up; dry or with but 
scanty watery coryza. 
Face.--Red, hot, flushed, swollen. One cheek red, the other pale (Cham, Ipec). On rising the red 
face becomes deathly pale, or he becomes dizzy. Tingling in cheeks and numbness. Neuralgia, 
especially of left side, with restlessness, tingling, and numbness. Pain in jaws. 
Mouth.—Numb, dry, and tingling. Tongue swollen; tip tingles. Teeth sensitive to cold. 
Constantly moves lower jaw as if chewing. Gums hot and inflamed. Tongue coated white (Antim 
crud). 
Throat.--Red, dry, constricted, numb, prickling, burning, stinging. Tonsils swollen and dry. 
Stomach.--Vomiting, with fear, heat, profuse sweat and increased urination. Thirst for cold 
water. Bitter taste of everything except water. Intense thirst. Drinks, vomits, and declares he will 
die. Vomiting, bilious mucous and bloody, greenish. Pressure in stomach with dyspnecea. 
Hematemesis. Burning from stomach to cesophagus. 
Abdomen.--Hot, tense, tympanitic. Sensitive to touch. Colic, no position relieves. Abdominal 
symptoms better after warm soup. Burning in umbilical region. 
Rectum.--Pain with nightly itching and stitching in anus. Frequent, small stool with tenesmus; 
green, like chopped herbs. White with red urine. Choleraic discharge with collapse, anxiety, and 
restlessness. Bleeding hemorrhoids (Hamam). Watery diarrhoea in children. They cry and 
complain much, are sleepless and restless. 
Urine.--Scanty, red, hot, painful. Tenesmus and burning at neck of bladder. Burning in urethra. 
Urine suppressed, bloody. Anxiety always on beginning to urinate. Retention, with screaming 
and restlessness, and handling of genitals. Renal region sensitive. Profuse urination, with profuse 
perspiration and diarrhcea. 
Male.--Crawling and stinging in glans. Bruised pain in testicles, swollen, hard. Frequent 
erections and emissions. Painful erections. 
Female.--Vagina dry, hot, sensitive. Menses too profuse, with nosebleed, too protracted, late. 
Frenzy on appearance of menses. Suppressed from fright, cold, in plethoric subjects. Ovaries 
congested and painful. Sharp shooting pains in womb. After-pains, with fear and restlessness. 
Respiratory.--Constant pressure in left chest; oppressed breathing on least motion. Hoarse, dry, 
croupy cough; loud, labored breathing. Child grasps at throat every time he coughs. Very 
sensitive to inspired air. Shortness of breath. Larynx sensitive. Stitches through chest. Cough, 
dry, short, hacking; worse at night and after midnight. Hot feeling in lungs. Blood comes up with 
hawking. Tingling in chest after cough. 
Heart.--Tachycardia. Affections of the heart with pain in /eft shoulder. Stitching pain in chest. 
Palpitation, with anxiety, fainting, and tingling in fingers. Pulse full, hard; tense and bounding; 
sometimes intermits. Temporal and carotid arteries felt when sitting. 
Back.--Numb, stiff, painful. Crawling and tingling, as if bruised. Stiffness in nape of neck. 
Bruised pain between scapule. 
Extremities.--Numbness and tingling; shooting pains; icy coldness and insensibility of hands 
and feet. Arms feel lame, bruised, heavy, numb. Pain down left arm (Cact, Crotal, Kalmia, 
Tabac). Hot hands and cold feet. Rheumatic inflammation of joints; worse at night; red shining 
swelling, very sensitive. Hip-joint and thigh feel lame, especially after lying down. Knees 
unsteady; disposition of foot to turn (Aescu/). Weak and lax ligaments of all joints. Painless 
cracking of all joints. Bright red hypothenar eminences on both hands. Sensation as if drops of 
water trickled down the thigh. 
Sleep.--Nightmare. Nightly ravings. Anxious dreams. Sleeplessness, with restless and tossing 
about (Use thirtieth potency). Starts up in sleep. Long dreams, with anxiety in chest. Insomnia of 
the aged. 
Skin.--Red, hot, swollen, dry, burning. Purpura miliaris. Rash like measles. Gooseflesh. 
Formication and numbness. Chilliness and formication down back. Pruritus relieved by 
stimulants. 
Fever.--Cold stage most marked. Cold sweat and icy coldness of face. Coldness and heat 
alternate. Evening chilliness soon after going to bed. Cold waves pass through him. Thirst and 
restlessness always present. Chilly if uncovered or touched. Dry heat, red face. Most valuable 
febrifuge with mental anguish, restlessness, etc. Sweat drenching, on parts lain on; relieving all 
symptoms. 
Modalities.--Better in open air; worse in warm room, in evening and night; worse lying on 
affected side, from music, from tobacco-smoke, dry, cold winds. 
Vinegar in large doses is antidotal to poisonous effects. 
Relationship.--Acids, wine and coffee, lemonade, and acid fruits modify its action. 
Not indicated in malarial and low fevers or hectic and pyzemic conditions, and in inflammations 
when they localize themselves. Su/phur often follows it. Compare Cham and Coffea in intense 
pain and sleeplessness. 
Agrostis acts like Acon in fever and inflammations, also Spiranthes. 
Complementary: Coffea; Sulph. Sulphur may be considered a chronic Aconite. Often completes 
a cure begun with Aconite. 
Compare; Bellad; Cham; Coffea; Ferr, phos. 
Aconitine.--(Heavy feeling as of lead; pains in supraorbital nerve; ice-cold sensations creep up; 
hydrophobia symptoms. Tinnitus aurium 3x). Tingling sensation. 
Aconitum Lycotonum.--Great yellow wolfsbane.--(Swelling of glands; Hodgkin's disease. 
Diarrhoea after eating pork. Itching of nose, eyes, anus and vulva. Skin of nose cracked; taste of 
blood). 
Aconitum Cammarum.--(Headache with vertigo and tinnitus. Cataleptic symptoms. Formication 
of tongue, lips and face). 
Aconitum ferox.--Indian Aconite.--Rather more violent in its actions than A. napellus. It is more 
diuretic and less antipyretic. It has proved valuable in cardiac dyspnea, neuralgia, and acute 
gout. Dyspnea. Must sit up. Rapid respiration. Anxiety, with suffocation from feeling of 
paralysis in respiratory muscles. Cheynes-Stokes breathing. Quebracho (cardiac dyspnoea) 
(Achyranthes.--A Mexican drug--very similar to Aconite in fevers, but of larger range, being also 
adapted to typhoidal states and intermittents. Muscular rheumatism. A great diaphoretic. Use 6x). 
Eranthis hymnalis--(Winter Aconite--acts on solar plexus and works upwards causing dyspneea. 
Pain in occiput and neck). 
Dose.--Sixth potency for sensory affections; first to third for congestive conditions. Must be 
repeated frequently in acute diseases. Acon is a rapid worker. In Neuralgias tincture of the root 
often preferable, one drop doses (poisonous), or again, the 30th according to susceptibility of 
patient. 

ACTAEA SPICATA 
Baneberry 
(ACTEA SPICATA) 
Is a rheumatic remedy, especially of the small joints; tearing, tingling pains characterize it. 
Wrist-rheumatism. Pulsations over whole body, especially liver and renal region. Cardiovascular 
spasm. Pains worse from touch and motion. 
Head.--Fearful, starts easily; confused. Ebullition of blood to head excited by drinking coffee. 
Vertigo, tearing headache, better in open air, throbbing in brain, pain from crown to between 
eyebrows; heat in forehead, pain in left frontal eminence as if bone were crushed. Itching of 
scalp alternating with heat; nose red at tip, fluent coryza. 
Face.--Violent pain in upper jaw, running from teeth through malar bones to temples. 
Perspiration on face and head. 
Stomach.--Tearing, darting pains in epigastric region, with vomiting. Cramp-like pains in 
stomach and epigastrium, with difficult breathing; sense of suffocation. Sudden lassitude after 
eating. 
Abdomen.--Spasmodic retraction. Sticking pain and distension of hypogastrium. 
Respiratory.--Short, irregular breathing at night, while lying. Great oppression. Shortness of 
breath on exposure to cold air. 
Extremities.--Tearing pains in loins. Rheumatic pains in small joints, wrist, (Ulmus) fingers, 
ankles, toes. Swelling of joints from slight fatigue. Wrist swollen, red, worse any motion. 
Paralytic weakness in the hands. Lame feeling in arms. Pain in knee. Sudden lassitude after 
talking or eating. 
Relationship.--Compare: Cimicif; Cauloph, Led. 
Dose.--Third potency. 

ADONIS VERNALIS 
Pheasant's Eye 
A heart medicine, after rheumatism or influenza, or Bright's disease, where the muscles of the 
heart are in stage of fatty degeneration, regulating the pulse and increasing the power of 
contractions of heart, with increased urinary secretions. Most valuable in cardiac dropsy. Low 
vitality, with weak heart and slow, weak pulse. Hydrothorax, ascites. Anasarca. 
Head.--Feels light; aches across front, from occiput around temples to eyes. Vertigo on rising, 
turning head quickly or lying down. Tinnitus. Scalp feels tight. Eyes dilated. 
Mouth.—Slimy. Tongue dirty yellow, sore, feels scalded. 
Heart.--Mitral and aortic regurgitation. Chronic aortitis, Fatty heart pericarditis. Rheumatic 
Endocarditis (Kalmia). Prececordial pain, palpitation, and dyspnoea. Marked venous 
engorgement. Cardiac asthma (Quebracho). Fatty heart. Myocarditis, irregular cardiac action, 
constriction and vertigo. Pulse rapid, irregular. 
Stomach.--Heavy weight. Gnawing hunger. Faint feeling in epigastrium. Better out of doors. 
Urine.--Oily pellicle on urine. Scanty, albuminous. 
Respiratory.--Frequent desire to take a long breath. Feeling of weight on chest. 
Sleep.--Restlessness, with horrible dreams. 
Extremities.--Aching in nape. Spine stiff and aching. Edema. 
Relationship.--Adonidin is a cardiac tonic and diuretic. Quarter grain daily, or two to five grains 
of first decimal trit increases arterial pressure and prolongs the diastole, favoring emptying 
engorged veins. Is an excellent substitute for Digitalis and is not cumulative in action. 
Compare: Digit; Cratoeg; Conval; Strophanthus. 
Dose.--Five to ten drops of the tincture. 

ADRENALINUM 
An Internal Secretion of Suprarenal Glands 
(ADRENALIN) 
Adrenaline or Epinephrine, the active principle of the medulla of the suprarenal gland, (cortical 
secretion not as yet isolated), is employed as a chemical messenger in the regulation of the 
activities of the body; in fact, its presence is essential to the activity of the sympathetic nerve. 
Adrenaline action on any part is the same as stimulation of the sympathetic nerve endings 
thereto. Local application (1: 1,000 solution) to mucous membranes promptly induces transient 
ischemia, seen in a blanching, persisting several hours from conjunctival instillation. Its action is 
very prompt, efficient, evanescent, owing to rapid oxidation and therefore practically harmless, 
unless too frequently repeated, when atheroma and heart lesions--myocardial--in animals have 
been reported. Arteries, heart, supra-renal bodies and vaso-motor system are prominently 
affected. The main action of Adrenaline is stimulation of the sympathetic endings, notably the 
splanchnic area, causing constriction of the peripheral arterioles, with resulting rise in blood 
pressure. This is especially observed in stomach, intestines; less in uterus, skin; nil in brain and 
lungs. Furthermore, is noticed, s/owing of pulse, (medullary vagus stimulation), and 
strengthening of heart beat (increased myocardial contractility), resembling Digitalis; increased 
glandular activity, glycosuria; depression of respiratory center; contraction of muscular tissue of 
eye, uterus, vagina; relaxation of muscular tissue of stomach, intestines, bladder. 
Uses.--Its chief therapeutic use depends on its vaso-constriction action; therefore a most 
powerful and prompt astringent and hemostatic; and invaluable in checking capillary 
heemorrhages, from a// parts, where /ocal or direct application is feasible: nose, ear, mouth, 
throat, larynx, stomach, rectum, uterus, bladder. Hemorrhagic condition not due to defective 
coagulation of the blood. Complete b/oodlessness, ischemia, may be induced with impunity. 
Locally, solutions (1: 10,000-1: 1,000) sprayed or applied on cotton have been very efficient in 
bloodless operations about the eye, nose, throat, and larynx. 
Congestions of the ethmoid and sphenoid sinuses, also hay fever, have been markedly alleviated 
by warm spray of Adrenaline chloride, 1: 5,000. Here compare, Hepar 1x, which will start up 
secretions and so facilitate drainage. Werlhoff's disease, hypodermically, 1: 1,000. Externally, it 
has been used in neuritis, neuralgia, reflex pains, gout, rheumatism, as an ointment, 1-2 m of (1: 
1,000) solution, along the nerve trunk at point of skin nearest its origin which could be reached 
(H. G. Carlton). 
Therapeutically, Adrenaline has been suggested in acute congestion of lungs, Asthma, Grave's 
and Addison's diseases, arterio-sclerosis, chronic aortitis, angina pectoris, hemophilia chlorosis, 
hay fever, serum rashes, acute urticaria, etc. Dr. P. Jousset reports success in treating, 
homeopathically, cases of angina and of aortitis, sub-acute and chronic, when Adrenaline has 
been prescribed per os and in infinitesimal dose. The symptom guiding to this is, Sensation of 
thoracic constriction with anguish. This, with vertigo, nausea and vomiting have been produced 
by the drug. Abdominal pain. Shock or heart failure during anzesthesia, as it causes very prompt 
rise of blood pressure by its action on nerve endings in the vessel wall. 
Dose.--Hypodermically, 1-5 m (1: 1,000 solution, as chloride) diluted in water. Internally, 5-30m 
of 1: 1,000 solution. 
Caution.--On account of its affinity for oxygen, the drug easily decomposes in watery and dilute 
acid solutions. The solution must be protected from air and light. It must not be too frequently 
repeated, owing to cardiac and arterial lesions. For homeopathic use 2x to 6x attenuation. 

AESCULUS HIPPOCASTANUM 
Horse Chestnut 
The action of this drug is most marked on the lower bowel, producing engorged hemorrhoidal 
veins, with characteristic backache, with absence of actual constipation. Much pain but little 
bleeding. Venous stasis general, varicose veins of purple color; everything is slowed down, 
digestion, heart, bowels, etc. Torpor and congestion of the liver and portal system, with 
constipation. The back aches and gives out and unfits the patient for business. Flying pains all 
over. Fullness in various parts, dry, swollen mucous membranes. Throat with hemorrhoidal 
conditions. 
Head.--Depressed and irritable. Head dull, confused, aching as from a cold. Pressure in 
forehead, with nausea, followed by stitches in right hypochondrium. Pain from occiput to frontal 
region, with bruised sensation of the scalp; worse in the morning. Neuralgic stitches from right to 
left through forehead, followed by flying pains in epigastrium. Vertigo when sitting and walking. 
Eyes.--Heavy and hot, with lachrymation, with enlarged blood vessels. Eyeballs sore. 
Nose.--Dry; inspired air feels cold, nasal passages sensitive to it. Coryza, sneezing. Pressure at 
root of nose. Membrane over turbinate bones distended and boggy, dependent upon hepatic 
disorders. 
Mouth.—Scalded feeling. Metallic taste. Salivation. Tongue thickly coated, feels as if scalded. 
Throat.--Hot, dry, raw, stitching pain into ears when swallowing. Follicular pharyngitis 
connected with hepatic congestion. Veins in pharynx distended and tortuous. Throat sensitive to 
inspired air; feels excoriated and constricted, burns like fire on swallowing, in afternoon. Early 
stages of atrophic pharyngitis in dried-up, bilious subjects. Hawking of ropy mucus of sweetish 
taste. 
Stomach.--Weight ofa stone, with gnawing, aching pain; most manifest about three hours after 
meals. Tenderness and fullness in region of liver. 
Abdomen.--Dull aching in liver and epigastrium. Pain at umbilicus. Jaundice; throbbing in 
hypogastrium and pelvis. 
Rectum.--Dry, aching. Feels full of small sticks. Anus raw, sore. Much pain after stool, with 
prolapse. Hemorrhoids, with sharp shooting pains up the back; blind and bleeding; worse during 
climacteric. Large, hard, dry stools. Mucous membrane seems swollen and obstructs the passage. 
Irritation caused by ascarides and aids their expulsion. Burning in anus with chills up and down 
back. 
Urinary.--Frequent, scant, dark, muddy, hot urine. Pain in kidneys, especially left and ureter. 
Male.--Discharge of prostatic fluid at stool. 
Female.--Constant throbbing behind symphysis pubis. Leucorrhoea, with lameness of back 
across the sacro-iliac articulation; dark yellow, sticky corroding; worse after menses. 
Chest.--Feels constricted. Heart's action full and heavy, can feel pulsations all over. Laryngitis; 
coughs depending on hepatic disorders; hot feeling in chest; pain around heart in hemorrhoidal 
subjects. 
Extremities.--Aching and soreness in limbs, in left acromion process with shooting down arms; 
finger tips numb. 
Back.--Lameness in neck; aching between shoulder blades; region of spine feels weak; back and 
legs give out. Backache affecting sacrum and hips; worse walking or stooping. When walking 
feet turn under. Soles feel sore, tired, and swell. Hands and feet swell, and become red after 
washing, feel full. 
Fever.--Chill at 4 pm. Chilliness up and down back. Fever 7 to 12 pm. Evening fever, skin hot 
and dry. Sweat profuse and hot with the fever. 
Modalities.--Worse, in morning on awaking, and from any motion, walking; from moving 
bowels; after eating, afternoon, standing. Better, cool open air. 
Relationship.--Aesculus glabra-Ohio-Buckeye Proctitis. Very painful, dark purple, external 
hemorrhoids, with constipation and vertigo and portal congestion. Speech thick, tickling in 
throat, impaired vision, paresis. Phytolacca (throat dry, more often in acute cases). Negundium 
Americanum--Box-elder--(Engorgements of rectum and piles with great pain, ten-drop doses of 
tincture every two hours). Compare also: Aloe, Collinson. Nux. Sulphur. 
Dose.--Tincture, to third potency. 

AETHUSA CYNAPIUM 
Fool's Parsley 
The characteristic symptoms relate mainly to the brain and nervous system, connected with 
gastro-intestinal disturbance. Anguish, crying, and expression of uneasiness and discontent, lead 
to this remedy most frequently in disease in children, during dentition, summer complaint, when, 
with the diarrhoea, there is marked inability to digest milk, and poor circulation. Symptoms set in 
with violence. 
Mind.—Restless, anxious, crying. Sees rats, cats, dogs, etc. Unconscious, delirious. /nability to 
think, to fix the attention. Brain fag. Idiocy may alternate with furor and irritability. 
Head.--Feels bound up, or ina vise. Occipital pain extending down spine; better lying down and 
by pressure. Head symptoms relieved by expelling flatus (Sanguin) and by stool. Hair feels 
pulled. Vertigo with drowsiness, with palpitation; head hot after vertigo ceases. 
Eyes.--Photophobia; swelling of Meibomian glands. Rolling of eyes on falling asleep. Eyes 
drawn downward; pupils dilated. 
Ears.--Feel obstructed. Sense of something hot from ears. Hissing sound. 
Nose.--Stopped up with much thick mucus. Herpetic eruption on tip of nose. Frequent 
ineffectual desire to sneeze. 
Face.--Puffed, red-spotted, collapsed. Expression anxious, full of pain; /inea nasalis marked. 
Mouth.—Dry. Aphthz. Tongue seems too long. Burning and pustules in throat, with difficult 
swallowing. 
Stomach.--/ntolerance of milk; vomiting as soon as swallowed or in large curds. Hungry after 
vomiting. Regurgitation of food about an hour after eating. Violent vomiting of a white frothy 
matter. Nausea at sight of food. Painful contraction of stomach. Vomiting, with sweat and great 
weakness, accompanied by anguish and distress, followed by sleepiness. Stomach feels turned 
upside down, with burning feeling up to the chest. Tearing pains in the stomach extending to 
cesophagus. 
Abdomen.--Cold, internal and external, with aching pain in bowels. Colic, followed by 
vomiting, vertigo, and weakness. Tense, inflated, and sensitive. Bubbling sensation around navel. 
Stool.--Undigested, thin, greenish, preceded by colic, with tenesmus, and followed by 
exhaustion and drowsiness. Cholera infantum; child cold, clammy, stupid, with staring eyes and 
dilated pupils. Obstinate constipation; feels as if all bowel action is lost. Choleraic affections in 
old age. 
Urinary.--Cutting pain in bladder, with frequent urging. Pain in kidneys. 
Female.--Lancinating pains in sexual organs. Pimples; itching when warm. Menses watery. 
Swelling of mammary glands, with lancinating pains. 
Respiratory.--Difficult, oppressed, anxious respiration; crampy constriction. Sufferings render 
patient speechless. 
Heart.--Violent palpitation, with vertigo, headache and restlessness. Pulse rapid, hard and small. 
Back and Extremities.--Want of power to stand up or hold head up. Back feels as if in a vise. 
Aching in small of back. Weakness of lower extremities. Fingers and thumbs clenched. 
Numbness of hands and feet. Violent spasms. Squinting of eyes downward. 
Skin.--Excoriation of thighs in walking. Easy perspiration. Surface of body cold and covered 
with clammy sweat. Lymphatic glands swollen. Itching eruption around joints. Skin of hands dry 
and shrunken. Ecchymosis. Anasarca. 
Fever.--Great heat; no thirst. Profuse, cold sweat. Must be covered during sweat. 
Sleep.--Disturbed by violent startings; cold perspiration. Dozing after vomiting or stool. Child is 
so exhausted, it falls asleep at once. 
Modalities.-- Worse, 3 to 4 am, and evenings; warmth, summer. Better in open air and company. 
Compare: Athamantha (confused head, vertigo better lying down, bitter taste and saliva. Hands 
and feet icy cold); Antimon; Calc; Ars; Cicuta. Complementary: Calc. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. 

AETHIOPS MINERALIS 
Sulph and Quicksilver, or Black Sulphide of Mercury 
(AETHIOPS MERCURIALIS-MINERALIS) 
This preparation is of use in scrofulous affections, ophthalmia, otorrhoea, painful, irritating, 
scabby eruptions, hereditary syphilis. 
Skin.--Eruptions. Favus-like, scrofulous, herpetic and eczematous. 
Relationship.--Aethiops Antimonalis--(Hydrargyrum stibiato sulfuratum).--(often more effective 
than the above in scrofulous eruptions, glandular swellings, otorrhcea and scrofulous eye 
affections, corneal ulcers. Third trituration). Compare: Calc; Sil; Psorin. 
Dose.--The lower triturations, especially the second decimal. 

AGARICUS MUSCARIUS 
Toad Stool-Bug Agaric 
(AGARICUS MUSCARIUS-AMANITA) 
This fungus contains several toxic compounds, the best known of which is Muscarin. The 
symptoms of poisoning do not develop at once, usually twelve to fourteen hours elapse before 
the initial attack. There is no antidote, treatment, entirely symptomatic (Schneider). Agaricus acts 
as an intoxicant to the brain, producing more vertigo and delirium than alcohol, followed by 
profound sopor with lowered reflexes. 
Jerking, twitching, trembling, and itching are strong indications. Incipient phthisis; is related to 
the tubercular diathesis, anzemia, chorea, twitching ceases during sleep. Various forms of 
neuralgia and spasmodic affections, and neurotic skin troubles are pictured in the 
symptomatology of this remedy. It corresponds to various forms of cerebral excitement rather 
than congestion. Thus, in delirium of fevers, alcoholism, etc. General paralysis. Sensation as if 
pierced by needles of ice. Sensitive to pressure and cold air. Violent bearing-down pains. 
Symptoms appear diagonally as right arm and left leg. Pains are accompanied by sensation of 
cold, numbness and tingling. 
Mind.--Sings, talks, but does not answer. Loguacity. Aversion to work. Indifference. 
Fearlessness. Delirium characterized by singing, shouting, and muttering; rhymes and 
prophesies. Begins with paroxysm of yawning. 
The provings bring out four phases of cerebral excitement. 
1. Slight stimulation-shown by increased cheerfulness, courage, loquacity, exalted fancy. 
2. More decided intoxication-great mental excitement and incoherent talking, immoderate gaity 
alternates with melancholy. Perception of relative size of objects is lost, takes long steps and 
jumps over small objects as if they were trunks of trees-a small hole appears as a frightful chasm, 
a spoonful of water an immense lake. Physical strength is increased, can lift heavy loads. With it 
much twitching. 
3. Third stage produces a condition of furious or raging delirium, screaming, raving, wants to 
injure himself, etc. 
4. Fourth stage-mental depression, languor, indifference, confusion, disinclination to work, etc. 
We do not get the active cerebral congestion of Belladonna, but a general nervous excitement 
such as is found in delirium tremens, delirium of fevers, etc. 
Head.--Vertigo from sunlight, and on walking. Head in constant motion. Falling backward, as if 
a weight in occiput. Lateral headache, as if from a nail (Coff; [gnat). Dull headache from 
prolonged desk-work. Icy coldness, like icy needles, or splinters. Neuralgia with icy cold head. 
Desire to cover head warmly (Silica). Headache with nose-bleed or thick mucous discharge. 
Eyes.--Reading difficult, as type seems to move, to swim. Vibrating specters. Double vision 
(Gels), dim and flickering. Asthenopia from prolonged strain, spasm of accommodation. 
Twitching of lids and eyeballs (Codein). Margins of lids red; itch and burn and agglutinate. Inner 
angles very red. 
Ears.--Burn and itch, as if frozen. Twitching of muscles about the ear and noises. 
Nose.--Nervous nasal disturbances. /tching internally and externally. Spasmodic sneezing after 
coughing; sensitiveness; watery non-inflammatory discharge. Inner angles very red. Fetid, dark, 
bloody discharge. Nosebleed in old people. Sensation of soreness in nose and mouth. 
Face.--Facial muscles feel stiff; twitch; face itches and burns. Lancinating, tearing pain in 
cheeks, as of splinters. Neuralgia, as if cold needles ran through nerves or sharp ice touched 
them. 
Mouth.--Burning and smarting on lips. Herpes on lips. Twitching. Taste sweet. Aphthz on roof 
of mouth. Splinter like pains in tongue. Thirsty all the time. Tremulous tongue (Lach). Tongue 
white. 
Throat.--Stitches along eustachian tube to ear. Feels contracted. Small solid balls of phlegm 
thrown up. Dryness of pharynx, swallowing difficult. Scratching in throat; cannot sing a note. 
Stomach.--Empty eructations, tasting of apples. Nervous disturbances, with spasmodic 
contractions, hiccough. Unnatural hunger. Flatulent distention of stomach and abdomen. Profuse 
inodorous flatus. Burning in stomach about three hours after a meal, changing into a dull 
pressure. Gastric disturbance with sharp pains in liver region. 
Abdomen.--Stitching pains in liver, spleen (Ceanothus) and abdomen. Stitches under short ribs, 
left side. Diarrhoea with much fetid flatus. Fetid stools. 
Urinary.--Stitches in urethra. Sudden and violent urging to urinate. Frequent urination. 
Female.--Menses, increased, earlier. Itching and tearing, pressive pains of genitals and back. 
Spasmodic dysmenorrhcea. Severe bearing-down pains, especially after menopause. Sexual 
excitement. Nipples itch, burn. Complaints following parturition and coitus. Leucorrhoea, with 
much itching. 
Respiratory Organs.--Violent attacks of coughing that can be suppressed by effort of will, 
worse eating, pain in head while cough lasts. Spasmodic cough at night after falling asleep, with 
expectoration of little balls of mucus. Labored, oppressed breathing. Cough ends in a sneeze. 
Heart.--/rregular, tumultuous palpitation, after tobacco. Pulse intermittent and irregular. Cardiac 
region oppressed, as if thorax were narrowed. Palpitation with redness of face. 
Back.--Pain, with sensitiveness of spine to touch; worse in dorsal region. Lumbago; worse in 
open air. Crick in back. Twitching of cervical muscles. 
Extremities.--Stiff all over. Pain over hips. Rheumatism better motion. Weakness in loins. 
Uncertain gait. Trembling. /tching of toes and feet as if frozen. Cramp in soles of feet. Pain in 
shin-bone. Neuralgia in locomotor ataxia. Paralysis of lower limbs, with spasmodic condition of 
arms. Numbness of legs on crossing them. Paralytic pain in left arm followed by palpitation. 
Tearing painful contractions in the calves. 
Skin.--Burning, itching, redness, and swelling, as from frostbites. Pimples, hard, like flea-bites. 
Miliary eruption, with intolerable itching and burning. Chilblains. Angioneurotic oedema; 
rosacea. Swollen veins with cold skin. Circumscribed erythematous, papular and pustular and 
cedematous lesions. 
Sleep.--Paroxysms of yawning. Restless from violent itching and burning. On falling asleep, 
starts, twitches, and awakes often. Vivid dreams. Drowsy in daytime. Yawning, followed by 
involuntary laughter. 
Fever.--Very sensitive to cool air. Violent attacks of heat in evening. Copious sweat. Burning 
spots. 
Modalities.-- Worse, open cold air, after eating, after coitus. In cold weather, before a thunder- 
storm. Worse, pressure on dorsal spine, which causes involuntary laughter. Better, moving about 
slowly. 
Relationship.--Compare: Muscarine, the alkaloid of Agaricus (has much power over secretions, 
increasing lachrymal, salivary, hepatic, etc, but diminishing renal; probably neurotic in origin, 
stimulating the terminal fibers of the secretory nerves of all these structures, hence salivation, 
lachrymation and excessive perspiration. Atropin exactly opposes Muscarine. Resembles 
Pilocarpin in action). Amanita vernus-spring mushroom-a variety of Agar Phalloides-Death cup- 
active principle is Phallin, active like Muscarine. Amanita phalloides (Death Cup-Deadly 
Agaric). The poison is a toxalbumin, resembling the poison in the rattle snake and the poison 
excreted by the cholera and diphtheria germs. It acts on the red blood corpuscles, dissolving 
them so that blood escapes into the alimentary canal and the whole system is drained. The 
amount of this toxic principle is small, even handling of specimens and breathing of spores 
affects some people unpleasantly. The poison is slow in development. Even 12 to 20 hours after 
taking it the patient feels all right, but vertigo violent choleraic symptoms with rapid loss of 
strength with death the second or third day, preceded by stupor and spasms. Fatty degeneration 
of liver, heart and kidneys, hemorrhages in lungs, pleura and skin (Dr. J. Schier). Vomiting and 
purging. Continuous urging to stool, but no gastric, abdominal or rectal pain. Intense thirst for 
cold water, dry skin. Lethargic but mentally clear. Sharp changes from rapid to slow and from 
slow to rapid breathing, extreme collapse, suppressed urine, but no cold extremities or cramps. 
Agaric emet (severe vertigo; all symptoms better, cold water; longing for ice-water; gastritis 
cold sweat, vomiting sensation as if stomach was suspended on a string). Zamus (chilblains and 
freckles). Cimicif; Cann ind; Hyos; Tarantula. 
Antidote: Absinth; Coffea; Camphor. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth and two hundredth potency. In skin affections and brain exhaustions 
give the lower attenuations. 

AGAVE AMERICANA 
Century Plant 
Indicated in stomachache, and painful erections in gonorrhcea. Strangury. Hydrophobia. Scurvy; 
countenance pale, gums swollen and bleeding, legs covered with dark purple blotches, swollen, 
painful and hard. Appetite poor; bowels constipated. 
Relationship.--Compare: Anhalonium,; Lyssin; Lach. 
Dose.--Tincture 

AGNUS CASTUS 
The Chaste Tree 
The most effective point of attack of Agnus upon the organism is the sexual organism. It lowers 
sexual vitality, with corresponding mental depression and loss of nervous energy. It shows this 
distinctive influence in both sexes, but is more pronounced in men. Premature old age from 
abuse of sexual power. History of repeated gonorrhoea. A prominent remedy for sprains and 
strains. Gnawing itching in all parts, especially eyes. Tachycardia caused by tobacco in neurotic 
young men. 
Mind.--Sexual melancholy. Fear of death. Sadness with impression of speedy death. 
Absentminded, forgetful, lack of courage. Illusion of smell-herrings, musk. Nervous depression 
and mental forebodings. 
Eyes.--Pupils dilated (Bell). Itching about eyes; photophobia. 
Nose.--Odor of herring or musk. Aching in dorsum better pressure. 
Abdomen.--Spleen swollen, sore. Stools soft, recede, difficult. Deep fissures in anus. Nausea 
with sensation as if intestines were pressed downwards; wants to support bowels. 
Male.--Yellow discharge from urethra. No erections. Jmpotence. Parts cold, relaxed. Desire 
gone (Selen; Con; Sabal). Scanty emission without ejaculation. Loss of prostatic fluid on 
straining. Gleety discharge. Testicles, cold, swollen, hard, and painful. 
Female.--Scanty menses. Abhorrence of sexual intercourse. Relaxation of genitals, with 
leucorrheea. Agalactia; with sadness. Sterility. Leucorrhcea staining yellow; transparent. 
Hysterical palpitation with nose bleed. 
Relationship.--Compare: Selenium; Phosph ac; Camphor; Lycop. 
Dose.--First to sixth potency. 

AGRAPHIS NUTANS 
Bluebell 
A relaxed condition of the system generally and a proneness to take cold on exposure to cold 
winds. 
Catarrhal conditions; obstruction of nostrils. Adenoids, throat deafness. Enlarged tonsils. 
Mucous diarrhoea from cold. Chill from cold winds. Throat and ear troubles with tendency to free 
discharge from mucous membranes. Mutinism of childhood unconnected with deafness. 
Relationship.--Compare: Hydrast; Cepa; Calc phos; Sulph jod; Calc jod. 
Dose.--Third potency. Single doses of tincture (Dr. Cooper). 

AILANTHUS GLANDULOSA 
Chinese Sumach 
This remedy shows by its peculiar skin symptoms its pronounced power of disorganizing the 
blood, causing conditions we meet with in low fevers, low types of eruptive diseases, diphtheria, 
follicular tonsillitis, Streptococcus infection, Hemorrhagic diathesis, etc. The skin appears livid 
or purplish; face dark as mahogany, hot; sordes; throat swollen, purple, livid; semi-conscious, 
delirious; weak pulse, general torpor and prostration. Symptoms remarkably alike to malignant 
scarlatina. Diarrhoea, dysentery and great weakness are very marked. Adynamia characterizes all 
its conditions. Lividity, stupor and malignancy. Mucous membranes hemorrhagic and ulcerative 
(Lach. Ars). 
Head.--General stupor, with sighing. Confused mind, mental depression. Headache, frontal, 
with drowsiness. Passive congestion headaches. Suffused, dilated eyes; photophobia. Face dusky. 
Thin, copious, ichorous, bloody nasal discharge. 
Throat.--Inflamed, cedematous, dusky red. Much swelling, internal and external. Dry, rough, 
scraping, choking feeling. Neck tender and swollen. Hoarse, croupy voice. Tongue dry and 
brown. Teeth covered with sordes. Pain in swallowing extends to the ears. 
Respiratory.--Hurried breathing; irregular. Dry, hacking cough. Lungs sore and tired. 
Sleep.--Drowsy, restless. Heavy, disturbed, unrefreshing. 
Skin.--Miliary, livid rash, returns annually. Large blisters filled with dark serum. /rregular, 
patchy, livid eruption, disappearing on pressure. Cold. Raynaud's disease. 
Relationship.--Antidotes: Rhus; Nux. 
Compare: Ammon carb; Bapt; Arn; Mur ac; Lach; Rhus. 
Dose.--First to sixth potency. 

ALETRIS FARINOSA 
Stargrass 
An anemic, relaxed condition, especially of the female organism, is portrayed by this remedy. 
The patient is tired all the time, and suffers from prolapsus, leucorrhcea, rectal distress, etc. 
Marked anemia. Chlorotic girls and pregnant women. 
Mind.--Power and energy weakened. Confused feelings. Cannot concentrate mind. Fainting, 
with vertigo. 
Mouth.--Much frothy saliva. 
Stomach.--Disgust for food. Least food causes distress. Fainting spells, with vertigo. Vomiting 
during pregnancy. Nervous dyspepsia. Flatulent colic. 
Rectum.--Loads up with feces-paretic condition. Stool large, hard, difficult, great pain. 
Female.--Premature and profuse menses, with labor-like pains (Bell; Cham, Kali c; Plat). 
Retarded and scanty flow (Senecio). Uterus seems heavy. Prolapse, with pain in right inguinal 
region. Leucorrhcea due to weakness and anzemia. Habitual tendency to abortion. Muscular pains 
during pregnancy. 
Relationship.--Compare: Helonias; Hydrastis; Tanacet; China. 
Dose.--Tincture to third potency. 

ALFALFA 
Medicago Sativa, California Clover or Lucerne 
>From its action on the sympathetic, Alfalfa favorably influences nutrition, evidenced in "toning 
up" the appetite and digestion resulting in greatly improved mental and physical vigor, with gain 
in weight. Disorders characterized by malnutrition are mainly within its therapeutic range, for 
example, neurasthenia, splanchnic blues, nervousness, insomnia, nervous indigestion, etc. Acts 
as a fat producer, corrects tissue waste. Deficient lactation. Increases quality and quantity of milk 
in nursing mothers. Its pronounced urinary action suggests it clinically in diabetes insipidus and 
phosphaturia; and it is claimed to allay vesical irritability of prostatic hypertrophy. The 
rheumatic diathesis seems especially amenable to its action. 
Mind.—It induces mental exhilaration of buoyancy, i.e, a general feeling of well being; clear and 
bright, so that all blues are dissipated. Dull, drowsy, stupid (Gels); gloomy and irritable, worse 
during evening. 
Head.--Dull, heavy feeling in occiput, in and above the eyes, worse toward evening. Pain in left 
side of head. Violent headache. 
Ears.--Stuffed feeling in eustachian tubes (Kali mur) at night; patulous in morning. 
Stomach.--Increased thirst. Appetite impaired, but chiefly increased even to bulimia. He must 
eat frequently, so that he cannot wait for regular meals; hungry in forenoon (Su/). Much nibbling 
of food and craving for sweets. 
Abdomen.--Flatulence with distention. Shifting, flatulent pain along colon several hours after 
meals. Frequent, loose, yellow, painful stools, with burning of flatulence. Chronic appendicitis. 
Urine.--Kidneys inactive; frequent urging to urinate. Polyuria (Phos ac). Increased elimination 
of urea, indican and phosphates. 
Sleep.--Slept better than usual, especially in early morning; it induces quiet, reposeful and 
refreshing sleep. 
Relationship.--Compare: Avena sat; Dipodium punct; Gels; Hydr; Kali phos; Phos ac; Zinc. 
Dose.--The best results are elicited with material doses (5-10) drops of tincture, several times 
daily. Continue its use until tonic effects ensue. 

ALLIUM CEPA 
Red Onion 
A picture of coryza, with acrid nasal discharge and laryngeal symptoms, eye secretion bland; 
singers' cold, worse in warm room and toward evening; better in open air is presented by this 
remedy. Specially adapted to phlegmatic patients; colds in damp cold weather. Neuralgic pains, 
like a fine thread, following amputations or injuries to nerves. Traumatic chronic neuritis. 
Burning in nose, mouth, throat, bladder and skin. Sensation of glowing heat on different parts of 
the body. 
Head.--Catarrhal headache, mostly in forehead; worse in warm room towards evening. Thread- 
like pains in face. Headache ceases during menses; returns when flow disappears. 
Eyes.--Red. Much burning and smarting lachrymation. Sensitive to light. Eyes suffused and 
watery; profuse, bland lachrymation, better in open air. Burning in eyelids. 
Ears.--Earache, shooting in eustachian tube. 
Nose.--Sneezing, especially when entering a warm room. Copious, watery and extremely acrid 
discharge. Feeling of a lump at root of nose. Hay-fever (Sabad; Sil; Psor). Fluent coryza with 
headache, cough, and hoarseness. Polypus. 
Stomach.--Canine hunger. Pain in pyloric region. Thirst. Belching. Nausea. 
Abdomen.--Rumbling, offensive flatus. Pains in left hypogastrium. Colic sitting, moving about. 
Rectum.--Diarrhcea with very offensive flatus. Stitches in rectum; itching and rhagades in anus. 
Glowing heat in rectum. 
Urinary.--Sensation of weakness in bladder and urethra. Increased secretion of urine with 
coryza. Urine red with much pressure and burning in urethra. 
Respiratory.--Hoarseness. Hacking cough on inspiring cold air. Tickling in larynx. Sensation as 
if larynx is split or torn. Oppressed breathing from pressure in middle of chest. Constricted 
feeling in region of epiglottis. Pain extending to ear. 
Extremities.--Lame joints. Ulcers on heel. Painful affections of fingers about nails neuralgia of 
stump. Bad effects from getting feet wet. Limbs, especially arms, feel sore and tired. 
Sleep.-- Yawning with headache and drowsiness. Gaping in deep sleep. Dreams. Wakes at 2 am. 
Modalities.-- Worse, in the evening, in warm room. Better, in open air, and in cold room. 
Relationship.--Compare: Gels; Euph; Kali hyd; Aconite; Ipecac. 
Complementary: Phosphor; Thuja; Puls. 
Antidotes: Arn; Cham; Verat. 
Dose.--Third potency. 

ALLIUM SATIVUM 
Garlic 
Acts directly on intestinal mucous membrane increasing peristalsis. Colitis, with pathological 
flora. Has vaso-dilatory properties. Arterial hypotension begins usually in 30 to 45 minutes after 
twenty to forty drop doses of the tincture. 
Adapted to fleshy subjects with dyspepsia and catarrhal affections. High livers. Patients who eat 
a great deal more, especially meat, than they drink. Pain in hip, pain in psoas and iliac muscles. 
Pulmonary tuberculosis. 
Cough and expectoration diminishes, temperature becomes normal, weight is gained, and sleep 
becomes regular. Heemoptysis. 
Head.--Heavy; pulsation in temples; catarrhal deafness. 
Mouth.--Much sweetish saliva after meals and at night. Sensation of a hair on tongue or throat. 
Stomach.--Voracious appetite. Burning eructations. Least change in diet causes trouble. 
Constipation, with constant dull pains in bowels. Tongue pale, red papille. 
Respiratory.--Constant rattling of mucus in bronchi. Cough in the morning after leaving 
bedroom, with mucous expectoration, which is tenacious and difficult to raise. Sensitive to cold 
air. Dilated bronchi, with fetid expectoration. Darting pain in chest. 
Female.--Pain in swelling of breasts. Eruption in vagina and on breasts and vulva during menses. 
Relationship.--A/lium Sat according to Dr. Teste, belongs to the Bryonia group, including 
Lycopod. Nux. Colocy, Digital and Ignatia which affect deeply all flesh eating animals and 
hardly at all vegetarians. Hence their special applicability to meat eaters rather than to exclusive 
vegetarians. 
Compare: Capsicum; Arsenic; Senega; Kali nit. 
Complementary: Arsenic. 
Antidote: Lycopod. 
Dose.--Third to sixth potency. In tuberculosis, dose, four to six grammes in moderate state of 
dessication daily, in divided doses. 

ALNUS RUBRA 
Red Alder 
(ALNUS) 
Has some reputation as a remedy for skin affections, glandular enlargements, and indigestion 
from imperfect secretion of gastric juice. It stimulates nutrition, and thus acts favorably upon 
strumous disorders, enlarged glands, etc. Ulcerated mucous membranes of mouth and throat. 
Fingers covered by crust caused by pustules, disagreeable odor. Indigestion from imperfect 
secretion of gastric juice. 
Female.--Leucorrhea, with erosions of cervix, bleeding easily. Amenorrhoea, with burning pains 
from back to pubis. 
Skin.--Chronic herpes. Enlarged sub-maxillary glands. Eczema, prurigo. Purpura heemorrhagica. 
Poison-oak. Use locally. 
Dose.--Tincture to third potency. 

ALOE SOCOTRINA 
Socotrine Aloes 
(ALOE) 
An excellent remedy to aid in re-establishing physiological equilibrium after much dosing, where 
disease and drug symptoms are much mixed. There is no remedy richer in symptoms of portal 
congestion and none that has given better clinical results, both for the primary pathological 
condition and secondary phenomena. Bad effects from sedentary life or habits. Especially 
suitable to lymphatic and hypochondriacal patients. The rectal symptoms usually determine the 
choice. Adapted to weary people, the aged, and phlegmatic, old beer-drinkers. Dissatisfied and 
angry about himself, alternating with lumbago. Heat internally and externally. Has been used 
successfully in the treatment of consumption by giving the pure juice. 
Head.--Headache alternates with lumbago, with intestinal and uterine affections. Disinclination 
to mental labor. Aches above forehead, with heaviness in eyes, must partially close them. 
Headache after stool. Dull, pressive pain; worse from heat. 
Eyes.--Compelled to make small during pain in forehead. Flickering before eyes. Redness of 
eyes with yellow vision. Pain deep in orbits. 
Face.--Marked redness of lips. 
Ears.--Cracking when chewing. Sudden explosion and clashing in left ear. Tinkling as of some 
thin, shivered, metallic globe in head. 
Nose.--Coldness of tip. Bleeding in morning on awakening. Full of crusts. 
Mouth.—Taste bitter and sour. Tasteless eructations. Lips cracked and dry. 
Throat.--Thick lumps of tough mucus. Varicose condition of veins in pharynx. Dry, scrapy 
feeling. 
Stomach.--Aversion to meat. Longing for juicy things. After eating, flatulence, pulsation in 
rectum and sexual irritation. Nausea, with headache. Pain in pit when making false step. 
Abdomen.--Pain around navel, worse pressure. Fullness in region of liver, pain under right ribs. 
Abdomen feels full, heavy, hot, bloated. Pulsating pain around navel. Weak feeling, as if 
diarrhoea would come on. Great accumulation of flatus, pressing downwards, causing distress in 
lower bowels. Sensation of plug between symphysis pubis and os coccygis, with urging to stool. 
Colic before and during stool. Burning, copious flatus. 
Rectum.--Constant bearing down in rectum; bleeding, sore, and hot; relieved by cold water. 
Feeling of weakness and loss of power of sphincter ani. Sense of insecurity in rectum, when 
passing flatus. Uncertain whether gas or stool will come. Stool passes without effort, almost 
unnoticed. Lumpy, watery stool. Jelly-like stools, with soreness in rectum after stool. A lot of 
mucus, with pain in rectum after stool. Hemorrhoids protrude like grapes; very sore and tender; 
better cold water application. Burning in anus and rectum. Constipation, with heavy pressure in 
lower part of abdomen. Diarrhoea from beer. 
Urinary.--Incontinence in aged, bearing-down sensation and enlarged prostate. Scanty and high 
colored. 
Female.--Bearing down in rectum, worse standing and during menses. Uterus feels heavy, 
cannot walk much on that account. Labor-like pains in loins; extend down legs. Climacteric 
haemorrhage. Menses too early and too profuse. 
Respiratory.--Winter coughs, with itching. Difficult respiration, with stitches from liver to 
chest. 
Back.--Pain in small of back; worse moving. Stitches through sacrum. Lumbago alternating with 
headache and piles. 
Extremities.--Lameness in all limbs. Drawing pains in joints. Soles pain when walking. 
Modalities.--Worse early morning; summer; heat; in hot, dry weather; after eating or drinking. 
Better from cold, open air. 
Relationship.--Complementary: Su/phur; compare: Kali bich; Lycop; Allium sat. 
Antidotes: Opium; Sulph. 
Dose.--Sixth potency and higher. In rectal conditions, a few doses of the third, then wait. 

ALSTONIA SCHOLARIS 
Dita Bark 
Malarial diseases, with diarrhoea, dysentery, anzemia, feeble digestion, are the general conditions 
suggesting this remedy. Characteristics are the gone sensation in stomach and sinking in 
abdomen, with debility. A tonic after exhausting fevers. 
Abdomen.-- Violent purging and cramp in bowels. Heat and irritation in lower bowels. Camp 
diarrhoea, bloody stool, dysentery; diarrhoea from bad water and malaria. Painless watery stools 
(Phosph ac). Diarrhoea immediately after eating. 
Relationship.--Compare: Similar in action to Alstonia constricta, the bitter bark or native 
quinine of Australia. Ditain (active principle, is anti-periodic, like quinine, but without 
unpleasant effects). Cinchona (similar in diarrhoea, chronic dyspepsia and debility). Hydrastis; 
Fer cit et chin. 
Dose.--Tincture to third potency. Locally, for ulcers and rheumatic pains. 

ALUMINA 
Oxide et Aluminum-Argilla 
A very general condition corresponding to this drug is dryness of mucous membranes and skin, 
and tendency to paretic muscular states. Old people, with lack of vital heat, or prematurely old, 
with debility. Sluggish functions, heaviness, numbness, and staggering, and the characteristic 
constipation find an excellent remedy in Alumina. Disposition to colds in the head, and 
eructations in spare, dry, thin subjects. Delicate children, products of artificial baby foods. 
Mind.-—Low-spirited; fears loss of reason. Confused as to personal identity. Hasty, hurried. Time 
passes slowly. Variable mood. Better as day advances. Suicidal tendency when seeing knife or 
blood. 
Head.--Stitching, burning pain in head, with vertigo, worse in morning, but relieved by food. 
Pressure in forehead as from a tight hat. Inability to walk except with eyes open. Throbbing 
headache, with constipation. Vertigo, with nausea; better after breakfast. Falling out of hair; 
scalp itches and is numb. 
Eyes.--Objects look yellow. Eyes feel cold. Lids dry, burn, smart, thickened, aggravated in 
morning; chronic conjunctivitis. Ptosis. Strabismus. 
Ears.--Humming; roaring. Eustachian tube feels plugged. 
Nose.--Pain at root of nose. Sense of smell diminished. Fluent coryza. Point of nose cracked, 
nostrils sore, red; worse touch. Scabs with thick yellow mucus. Tettery redness. Ozaena atrophica 
sicca. Membranes distended and boggy. 
Face.--Feels as if albuminous substance had dried on it. Blood-boils and pimples. Twitching of 
lower jaw. Rush of blood to face after eating. 
Mouth.-Sore. Bad odor from it. Teeth covered with sordes. Gums sore, bleeding. Tensive pain 
in articulation of jaw when opening mouth or chewing. 
Throat.--Dry, sore; food cannot pass, cesophagus contracted. Feels as if splinter or plug were in 
throat. Irritable, and relaxed throat. Looks parched and glazed. Clergyman's sore throat in thin 
subjects. Thick, tenacious mucus drops from posterior nares. Constant inclination to clear the 
throat. 
Stomach.--Abnormal cravings-chalk, charcoal, dry food, tea-grounds. Heartburn; feels 
constricted. Aversion to meat (Graph; Arn; Puls). Potatoes disagree. No desire to eat. Can 
swallow but small morsels at a time. Constriction of cesophagus. 
Abdomen.--Colic, like painter's colic. Pressing in both groins toward sexual organs. Left-sided 
abdominal complaints. 
Stool.--Hard dry, knotty; no desire. Rectum sore, dry, inflamed, bleeding. Itching and burning at 
anus. Even a soft stool is passed with difficulty. Great straining. Constipation of infants (Collins; 
Psor; Paraf) and old people from inactive rectum, and in women of very sedentary habit. 
Diarrhcea on urinating. Evacuation preceded by painful urging long before stool, and then 
straining at stool. 
Urine.--Muscles of bladder paretic, must strain at stool in order to urinate. Pain in kidneys, with 
mental confusion. Frequent desire to urinate in old people. Difficult starting. 
Male.--Excessive desire. Involuntary emissions when straining at stool. Prostatic discharge. 
Female.--Menses too early, short, scanty, pale, followed by great exhaustion (Carb an; Coccul). 
Leucorrheea acrid, profuse transparent, ropy, with burning; worse during daytime, and after 
menses. Relieved by washing with cold water. 
Respiratory.--Cough soon after waking in the morning. Hoarse, aphonia, tickling in larynx; 
wheezing, rattling respiration. Cough on talking or singing, in the morning. Chest feels 
constricted. Condiments produce cough. Talking aggravates soreness of chest. 
Back.--Stitches. Gnawing pain, as if from hot iron. Pain along cord, with paralytic weakness. 
Extremities.--Pain in arm and fingers, as if hot iron penetrated. Arms feel paralyzed. Legs feel 
asleep, especially when sitting with legs crossed. Staggers on walking. Heels feel numb. Soles 
tender; on stepping, feel soft and swollen. Pain in shoulder and upper arm. Gnawing beneath 
finger nails. Brittle nails. Inability to walk, except when eyes are open or in daytime. Spinal 
degenerations and paralysis of lower limbs. 
Sleep.--Restless; anxious and confused dreams. Sleepy in morning. 
Skin.--Chapped and dry tettery. Brittle nails. Intolerable itching when getting warm in bed. Must 
scratch until it bleeds; then becomes painful. Brittle skin on fingers. 
Modalities.-- Worse, periodically; in afternoon; from potatoes. Worse, in morning on awaking; 
warm room. Better, in open air; from cold washing; in evening and on alternate days. Better 
damp weather. 
Relationship.--Compare: Aluminum chloridum (Pains of loco-motor ataxia. Lower trits in 
water). Slag Silico-Sulphocalcite of Alumina 3x (anal itching, piles, constipation, flatulent 
distention); Secale; Lathyr; Plumb. Aluminum acetate solution. Externally a lotion for putrid 
wounds and skin infections. Arrests hemorrhage from inertia of uterus. Parenchymatous 
heemorrhage from various organs-23 % solution. Hemorrhage following tonsillectomy is 
controlled by rinsing out nasopharynx with a 10 % sol. 
Complementary: Brvonia. 
Antidotes: Ipecac; Chamom. 
Dose.--Sixth to thirtieth and higher. Action slow in developing. 

ALUMINA SILICATA 
Andalasite rock-Alumina 63, Silica 37 parts 
Deep acting remedy for chronic complaints of brain, spine and nerves. Constriction is a marked 
general symptom, also constriction of orifices. Venous distention. Weakness, especially spinal. 
Aching and burning in spine. Formication, numbness, pain in all limbs. Epileptiform convulsion. 
Coldness during pains. 
Head.--Congestion of brain. Constriction of scalp. Pain in head, better heat, perspires. Pain in 
eyes, flickering. Frequent coryzas. Swelling and ulceration of nose. 
Respiratory.--Catarrh of chest, pain, raw feeling. Feeling of great weakness in chest. Stitching 
pains. Spasmodic cough with purulent viscid expectoration. 
Extremities.--Heaviness, jerking, numbness, aching and pains. 
Skin.--Formication along course of nerves, veins feel full and distended. Sore to touch and 
pressure. 
Modalities.-- Worse, cold air, after eating, standing. Better, warmth, fasting, resting in bed. 
Dose.--Higher potencies. -Lower triturations. 

ALUMEN 
Common Potash Alum 
The clinical application of this remedy points to its bowel symptoms, both in obstinate 
constipation and in hemorrhage from bowels in the course of typhoid-one phase of the paralytic 
weakness of the muscles in all parts of the body. Tendency to induration is also marked, a low 
form of tissue-making is favored. Hardening of tissues of tongue, rectum, uterus, etc; ulcers with 
indurated base. Adapted to old people, especially bronchial catarrhs. Sensation of dryness and 
constriction. Mental paresis; dysphagia especially to /iqguids. Tendency to induration, Scirrhus of 
the tongue. 
Head.--Burning pain as of weight on top of lead better by pressure of hand. Vertigo, with 
weakness in pit of stomach. Alopecia. 
Throat.--Throat relaxed. Mucous membrane red and swollen. Cough. Tickling in throat. 
Tendency to throat colds. Enlarged and indurated tonsils. Burning pain down the cesophagus. 
Complete aphonia. Every cold settles in throat. Constriction of cesophagus. 
Heart.--Palpitation, from lying down on right side. 
Rectum.--Constipation of the most aggravated kind. No desire for stool for days. Violent 
ineffectual urging to stool. No ability to expel stool. Marble-like masses pass, but rectum still 
feels full. Itching after stool. Itching in anus. Long lasting pain and smarting in rectum after 
stool; also hemorrhoids. Yellow, like an infant's. Hemorrhage from bowels. 
Female.--Tendency to induration of neck of uterus and mammary glands (Carb an; Con). 
Chronic yellow vaginal discharge. Chronic gonorrhoea, yellow, with little lumps along urethra. 
Aphthous patches in vagina (Cau/). Menses watery. 
Respiratory.--Hemoptysis, great weakness of chest; difficult to expel mucus. Copious, ropy 
morning expectoration in old people. Asthma. 
Skin.-- Ulcers, with indurated base. To be thought of in indurated glands, epithelioma, etc; veins 
become varicose and bleed. Indurations resulting from long-continued inflammatory irritations. 
Glands inflame and harden. Alopecia, Scrotal eczema and on back of penis. 
Extremities.-- Weakness of all muscles, especially arms and legs. Constricted feeling around 
limbs. 
Modalities.-- Worse, cold except headache, which is relieved by cold. 
Dose.--First to thirtieth potency. The very highest potencies have proved efficacious. Powdered 
alum, 10 grains, placed on tongue, said to arrest an attack of asthma. 

AMMONIUM BENZOICUM 
Benzoate of Ammonia 
One of the remedies for albuminuria, especially in the gouty. Gout, with deposits in joints. 
Urinary incontinence in the aged. 
Head.--Heavy, stupid. 
Face.--Bloated, swollen eyelids. Swelling under tongue like ranula. 
Urine.--Smoky, scanty. Albuminous and thick deposits. 
Back.--Pain across sacrum, with urgency to stool. Soreness in region of right kidney. 
Relationship.--Compare: Terebinth; Benz ac; Ammonia salts; Caust. 
In albuminuria compare: Kalmia; Helon; Merc cor; Berb; Canth. 
Dose.--Second trituration. 

AMMONIUM BROMATUM 
Bromide of Ammonia 
Indicated in chronic laryngeal and pharyngeal catarrh, neuralgic headaches, and obesity. 
Constrictive pain in head, chest, legs, etc. Irritable feeling under finger nails; relieved only by 
biting them. 
Head.--Cerebral congestion. Feeling of a band above ears. Sneezing; thick nasal discharge. 
Eyes.--Edges of lids red and swollen, also Meibomian glands. Eyeballs feel large and pain 
around eyes into head. 
Throat.--Smarting in mouth. Tickling in throat, with inclination to dry, spasmodic cough, 
especially at night. Burning in fauces. White, sticky, mucus. Chronic speakers' catarrh. 
Respiratory.--Sudden, short cough, strangling. Tickling in trachea and bronchial tubes. Wakes 
at 3 am with cough. Feels suffocated; continuous cough, when lying down at night; sharp pain in 
lungs. Whooping Cough.--Dry, spasmodic cough on lying down. 
Relationship.--Hyos; Con; Arg nit; Kali bich. 
Dose.--First potency. 

AMMONIUM CARBONICUM 
Carbonate of Ammonia 
(AMMONIUM CARB) 
The diseased conditions met by this remedy are such as we find often in rather stout women who 
are always tired and weary, take cold easily, suffer from cholera-like symptoms before menses, 
lead a sedentary life, have a slow reaction generally, and are disposed to frequent use of the 
smelling-bottle. Too frequent and profuse menses. Mucous membranes of the respiratory organs 
are especially affected. Fat patients with weak heart, wheezing, feel suffocated. Very sensitive to 
cold air. Great aversion to water; cannot bear to touch it. Malignant scarlatina, with somnolence, 
swollen glands, dark red sore throat, faintly developed eruption. Ureemia. Heaviness in all 
organs. Uncleanness in bodily habits. Swelling of parts, glands, etc. Acid secretions. Prostration 
from trifles. 
Mind.--Forgetful, ill-humored, gloomy during stormy weather. Uncleanliness. Talking and 
hearing others talk affects greatly. Sad, weepy, unreasonable. 
Head.--Pulsating forehead; better, pressure and in warm room. Shocks through head. 
Eyes.--Burning of eyes with aversion to light. Eye-strain (Nat mur). Asthenopia. Sore canthi. 
Ears.--Hardness of hearing. Shocks through ears, eyes, and nose, when gnashing teeth. 
Nose.--Discharge of sharp, burning water. Stoppage at night, with long-continued coryza. 
Cannot breathe through nose. Snuffles of children. Epistaxis after washing and after eating. 
Ozeena, blows bloody mucus from nose. Tip of nose congested. 
Face.--Tetters around mouth. Boils and pustules, during menses. Corners of mouth sore, cracked, 
and burn. 
Mouth.--Great dryness of mouth and throat. Toothache. Pressing teeth together sends shocks 
through head, eyes, and ears. Vesicles on tongue. Taste sour; metallic. Cracking of jaw on 
chewing. 
Throat.--Enlarged tonsils and glands of neck. Burning pain all down throat. Tendency to 
gangrenous ulceration of tonsils. Diphtheria when nose is stopped up. 
Stomach.--Pain at pit of stomach, with heartburn, nausea, waterbrash, and chilliness. Great 
appetite, but easily satisfied. Flatulent dyspepsia. 
Abdomen.--Noise and pain in abdomen. Flatulent hernia. Stools difficult, hard, and knotty. 
Bleeding piles; worse during menses. Itching at anus. Protruding piles, worse after stool, better 
lying down. 
Urine.--Frequent desire; involuntary at night. Tenesmus of bladder. Urine white, sandy, bloody, 
copious, turbid and fetid. 
Male.--Itching and pain of scrotum and spermatic cords. Erection without desire. Seminal 
emissions. 
Female.--Itching, swelling and burning of pudendum. Leucorrhcea burning, acrid, watery. 
Aversion to the other sex. Menses too frequent, profuse, early, copious, clotted, black; colicky 
pains, and hard, difficult stool, with fatigue, especially of thighs; yawning and chilliness. 
Respiratory.--Hoarseness. Cough every morning about three o'clock, with dyspneea, palpitation, 
burning in chest; worse ascending. Chest feels tired. Emphysema. Much oppression in breathing; 
worse after any effort, and entering warm room, or ascending even a few steps. Asthenic 
Pneumonia. Slow labored, stertorous breathing; bubbling sound. Winter catarrh, with slimy 
sputum and specks of blood. Pulmonary cedema. 
Heart.--Audible palpitation with fear, cold sweat, lachrymation, inability to speak, loud 
breathing and trembling hands. Heart weak, wakes with difficult breathing and palpitation. 
Extremities.--Tearing in joints relieved by heat of bed; inclination to stretch limbs. Hands cold 
and blue; distended veins. Fingers swell when arm is hanging down. Panaritium, deep-seated 
periosteal pain. Cramps in calves and soles. Big toe painful and swollen. Felons in the beginning. 
Heel painful on standing. Tearing in ankle and bones of feet, better when warm in bed. 
Sleep.--Sleepiness during the day. Starts from sleep strangling. 
Skin.--Violent itching and burning blisters. Scarlet rash. Miliary rash. Malignant scarlatina. 
Faintly developed eruptions from defective vitality. Erysipelas in the aged, with brain symptoms. 
Eczema in the bends of extremities, between legs, about anus and genitals. 
Modalities.--Worse, evenings, from cold, wet weather, wet applications, washing, and during 3 
to 4 am, during menses. Better, lying on painful side and on stomach; in dry weather. 
Relationship.--Inimical to Lachesis. Similar in action. 
Antidotes: Arnica; Camphor. 
Compare: Rhus; Muriatic acid; Tartar emet. 
Of use in poisoning by charcoal fumes. 
Dose.--Lower potencies deteriorate with age. Sixth potency best for general use. 

AMMONIUM CAUSTICUM 
Hydrate of Ammonia-Ammonia Water 
This is a powerful cardiac stimulant. As such in syncope, thrombosis, hemorrhage, snake-bites, 
chloroform narcosis, may be given by inhalation. 
The cedema and ulceration of mucous membranes produced by this powerful drug have been 
utilized as guiding symptoms for its use; hence in membranous croup with burning in 
cesophagus. Aphonia. See Causticum. 
Respiratory.--Difficult respiration. Accumulation of mucus with incessant coughing. Loss of 
voice. Burning rawness in throat. Spasm of the glottis with suffocation; patient gasps for breath. 
Pain in cesophagus on breathing deeply. Scraping and burning in throat and cesophagus. Uvula 
covered with white mucus. Nasal diphtheria, with burning excoriating discharge. 
Extremities.--Excessive exhaustion and muscular debility. Rheumatism of shoulders. Skin hot 
and dry. 
Dose.--First to third potency; also five to ten minims, well diluted with water. 

AMMONIUM IODATUM 
Iodide of Ammonia 
(AMMONIUM JODATUM) 
Indicated when iodine has but partially relieved its cases of laryngitis and bronchitis, catarrhal 
pneumonia, cedema of lungs. 
Head.--Dull headache, especially in young people, face stupid, heavy; vertigo, Meniere's 
disease. 
Dose.--Second and third trit. 
Compare: Ammonium tartaricum (Dry hacking cough after every cold). 

AMMONIUM MURIATICUM 
Sal Ammoniac 
A state of prostration bordering on a typhoid state is produced by this remedy. All mucous 
secretions are increased and retained. It is especially adapted to fat and sluggish patients who 
have respiratory troubles. Coughs associated with catarrhs and affections of liver. A tendency to 
irregular circulation, blood seems to be in constant turmoil, pulsations, etc. Many groups of 
symptoms are accompanied by cough, profuse glairy secretions. Its periods of aggravations are 
peculiarly divided as to the bodily region affected; thus the head and chest symptoms are worse 
mornings, the abdominal in the afternoon, the pains in the limbs, the skin and febrile symptoms, 
in the evenings. "Boiling" sensation. 
Mind.—Melancholy, apprehensive; like from internal grief. Desire to cry, but cannot. 
Consequences of grief. 
Head.--Hair falls out, with itchings and dandruff. Feels full, compressed; worse mornings. 
Eyes.--Mist before eyes, optical illusions in incipient cataract; capsular cataract. 
Nose.--Free acrid, hot watery discharge corroding the lip. Sneezing. Nose sore to touch; 
ulcerative pain in nostrils. Loss of smell. Obstructed, stuffy feeling; constant and unavailing 
efforts to blow it out. Itching. 
Face.--Inflammatory face-ache. Mouth and lips sore and excoriated. 
Throat.--Throbbing in, and swelling of tonsils, can scarcely swallow. Sore spot behind uvula, 
relieved by eating. Internal and external swelling of throat with viscid phlegm. So touch, it cannot 
be hawked up. Tonsillitis. Stricture of cesophagus. 
Stomach.--Thirst for lemonade, regurgitation of food, bitter waterbrash. Nausea. Gnawing in 
stomach. Epigastric pain immediately after eating. Cancer of stomach. 
Abdomen.--Splenic stitches, especially in the morning, with difficult breathing. Pain around 
navel. Abdominal symptoms appear during pregnancy. Chronic congestion of liver. Excessive 
fatty deposit around abdomen. Much flatus. Strained feeling in groin. 
Rectum.--Itching and hemorrhoids, soreness with pustules. Hard, crumbly stool, or covered with 
glairy mucus. Stinging in perineum. Green mucus stools alternate with constipation. During and 
after stool, burning and smarting in rectum. Hemorrhoids after suppressed leucorrheea. 
Female.--Menses too early, too free, dark, clotted; flow more at night. Pain as if sprained in left 
side of abdomen during pregnancy. Diarrhoea, greenish mucous stools, and navel pain during 
menses. Leucorrheea, like white of an egg (A/um; Bor; Calc p); with pain about the navel; brown, 
slimy after every urination. 
Respiratory.--Hoarseness and burning in larynx. Dry, hacking, scraping cough; worse lying on 
back or right side. Stitches in chest. Cough loose in afternoon, with profuse expectoration and 
rattling of mucus. Oppression of chest. Burning at small spots in chest. Scanty secretion. Cough 
with profuse salivation. 
Back.--Icy coldness between shoulders; not relieved by warm covering, followed by itching. 
Bruised pain in coccyx when sitting. Backache, as if in a vise when sitting. 
Extremities.--Pain as from ulceration in finger tips. Shooting and tearing in fips of finger and 
toes. Ulcerative pain in heels. Contraction of hamstring tendons. Sciatica, worse sitting, better 
lying. Neuralgic pain in amputated limbs. Offensive sweaty feet. Pain in feet during menses. 
Skin.--Itching, generally evenings. Blisters on various parts. Intense burning better cold 
applications. 
Fever.--Chilliness evenings after lying down and on awakening, without thirst. Heat in palms 
and soles. Sub acute, low fevers due to unhealthy climate. Lowest potencies. 
Modalities.--Better, open air. Worse, head and chest symptoms in the morning; abdominal 
symptoms in the afternoon. 
Relationship.--Antidotes: Coffea; Nux; Caust. 
Compare: Calcarea; Senega; Caustic. 
Dose.--Third to sixth potency. 

AMMONIUM PHOSPHORICUM 
Phosphate of Ammonia 
A remedy for chronic gouty patients uric acid diathesis, indicated in bronchitis and nodosities of 
the joints of the fingers and backs of the hands. Facial paralysis. Pain in shoulder-joint. Tightness 
around chest. Heaviness of limbs, unsteady, tottering gait. Coldness from least draft of air. 
Head.--Sneezing with excessive running from nose and eyes, only in morning. 
Respiratory.--Deep rough cough with greenish expectoration. 
Urine.--Rose-colored sediment. 
Dose.--Third decimal trituration. 

AMMONIUM PICRICUM 
Pictrate of Ammonia 
(AMMONIUM PICRATUM) 
A remedy for malarial fever and neuralgias and so-called, bilious headaches. Pain in occiput and 
mastoid region. Whooping cough. 
Head.--Periodical neuralgia in right side of occiput; boring extends to ear, orbit, and jaw. 
Vertigo on rising. Periodic bilious headaches (Sanguin). 
Dose.--Third trituration. 

AMMONIUM VALERIANICUM 
Valerianate of Ammonia 
A remedy for nervous, hysterical people, suffering with neuralgia headaches and insomnia. Great 
nervous erethism is always present. 
Heart.--Pains in cardiac region. Functional disturbances, tachycardia. 
Dose.--Lower triturations. 

AMBRA GRISEA 
Ambergis-A Morbid Secretion of the Whale 
Suitable to excitable, nervous children and thin, nervous patients. Extreme nervous 
hypersensitiveness. External numbness of whole body in the morning and weakness. Nervous 
bilious temperament. Thin, scrawny women. Adapted to hysterical subjects, or those suffering 
from spinal irritation, with convulsive cough, eructation, etc. Also for patients weakened by age 
or overwork, who are anemic and sleepless. Great remedy for the aged, with impairment of all 
functions, weakness, coldness and numbness, usually of single parts, fingers, arms, etc. One- 
sided complaints call for it. Music aggravates symptoms. Ebullitions and pulsations after walking 
in open air. One-sided complaints. 
Mind.--Dread of people, and desire to be alone. Cannot do anything in presence of others. 
Intensely shy, blushes easily. Music causes weeping. Despair, loathing of life. Fantastic illusions. 
Bashful. Loss of love of life. Restless, excited, very loquacious. Time passes slowly. Thinking, 
difficult in the morning with old people. Dwells upon unpleasant things. 
Head.--Slow comprehension. Vertigo, with weakness in head and stomach. Pressure on front 
part of head with mental depression. Tearing pain in upper half of brain. Senile dizziness. Rush 
of blood to head, when listening to music. Hearing impaired. Epistaxis, especially in the 
morning. Profuse bleeding from teeth. Hair falls out. 
Stomach.--Eructations, with violent, convulsive cough. Acid eructations, like heartburn. 
Distention of stomach and abdomen after midnight. Sensation of coldness in abdomen. 
Urinary.--Pain in bladder and rectum at the same time. Burning in orifice of urethra and anus. 
Feeling in urethra as if a few drops passed out. Burning and itching in urethra while urinating. 
Urine turbid, even during emission forming a brown sediment. 
Female.--Nymphomania, /tching of pudendum, with soreness and swelling. Menses too early. 
Profuse, bluish leucorrhoea. Worse at night. Discharge of blood between periods, at every little 
accident. 
Male.-- Voluptuous itching of scrotum. Parts externally numb; burn internally. Violent erections 
without voluptuous sensations. 
Respiratory.--Asthmatic breathing with eructation of gas. Nervous, spasmodic cough, with 
hoarseness and eructation, on waking in morning; worse in presence of people. Tickling in 
throat, larynx and trachea, chest oppressed, gets out of breath when coughing. Hollow, 
spasmodic, barking cough, coming from deep in chest. Choking when hawking up phlegm. 
Heart.--Palpitation, with pressure in chest as from a lump lodged there, or as if chest was 
obstructed. Conscious of the pulse. Palpitation in open air with pale face. 
Sleep.--Cannot sleep from worry; must get up. Anxious dreams. Coldness of body and twitching 
of limbs, during sleep. 
Skin.--Itching and soreness, especially around genitals. Numbness of skin. Arms "go to sleep". 
Extremities.--Cramps in hands and fingers, worse grasping anything. Cramps in legs. 
Modalities.-- Worse, music; presence of strangers; from any unusual thing; morning, warm room. 
Better, slow motion in open air; lying on painful part; cold drinks. 
Relationship.--Do not confound with Amber-Succinum q v. Moschus frequently follows 
advantageously. Compare: Oleum succinum (hiccough). Sumbul; Castor; Asaf; Crocus; Lilium. 
Dose.--Second and third potencies; may be repeated with advantage. 

AMBROSIA ARTEMISIAEFOLIA 
Rag-Weed 
(AMBROSIA) 
A remedy for hay-fever, /achrymation and intolerable itching of the eye-lids. Some forms of 
whooping-cough. Respiratory tract in its entire length stopped up. Many forms of diarrhea, 
especially during summer months, also dysentery. 
Nose.--Watery coryza; sneezing; watery discharge. Nosebleed. Stuffed up feeling of nose and 
head. Irritation of trachea and bronchial tubes, with asthmatic attacks (Aral; Eucalypt). Wheezy 
cough. 
Eyes.--Smart and burn. Lachrymation. 
Relationship.--Compare in hay-fever: Sabadilla, Wyethia; Succin ac; Ars jod; Arundo. 
Dose.--Tincture, to third potency; 10 drops in water during and after attack of epistaxis. In hay- 
fever high potencies. 

AMYGDALUS PERSICA 
Peach Tree 
A most valuable remedy in vomiting of various kinds; morning sickness. Irritation of eyes. 
Ischuria and hematuria. 
Hemorrhage from the bladder. 
Gastric irritation of children; no form of food tolerated. Loss of smell and taste. Gastric and 
intestinal irritation when the tongue is elongated and pointed, tip and edges red. Constant nausea 
and vomiting. 
Relationship.--Compare: Amygd amara-Bitter Almond (Pains through tonsils, throat dark, 
difficult swallowing, vomiting, cough with sore chest). 
Dose.--Fresh infusion or mother tincture. 

AMYLENUM NITROSUM 
Amy] Nitrite 
(AMYL NITROSUM) 
On inhaling this drug, it rapidly dilates all arterioles an capillaries, producing flushings of face, 
heat, and throbbing in the head.--Superficial arterial hypereemia. Palpitation of the heart and 
similar conditions are readily cured by it, especially the flushings and other discomforts at 
climacteric. Hiccough and yawning. Often relieves temporarily epileptic convulsions. 
Seasickness. 
Head.--Anxiety, as if something might happen; must have fresh air. Surging of blood to head and 
face; sensation as if blood would start through skin, with heat and redness. Flushings, followed 
by sweat at climacteric. Ears hypereemic. Throbbing. 
Throat.--Constriction; collar seems too tight. 
Chest.--Dyspnoea and asthmatic feelings. Great oppression and fullness of chest; spasmodic, 
suffocative cough. Praecordial anxiety. Tumultuous action of heart. Pain and constriction around 
heart. Fluttering at slightest excitement. 
Female.--After-pains; hemorrhage associated with facial flushing. Climacteric headache and 
flushes of heat, with anxiety and palpitation. 
Fever.--Much flushing of heat; sometimes followed by cold and clammy skin and profuse sweat. 
Throbbing throughout whole body. Abnormal sweat after influenza. 
Extremities.--Constant stretching for hours. Veins of hands dilated; pulsations felt in tips of 
fingers. 
Relationship.--Compare: Glonoine; Lachesis. 
Antidotes: Cactus; Strychn; Ergot. 
Dose.--Third potency. 
For palliations. In all conditions where the blood-vessels are spasmodically contracted, as in 
angina pectoris, epileptic seizure, megrim, accompanied by cold, pallor, etc, also in paroxysms 
of asthma, chloroform asphyxia, inhalation of the Amy/ nit will give immediate relief. For this 
non-homeopathic application, two to five minims (put up in pearls) dropped on a handkerchief 
and inhaled may be required. 

AMMONIACUM GUMMI 
Gum Ammoniac 
(AMMONIACUM-DOREMA) 
A remedy for the aged and feeble, especially in chronic bronchitis. Hl humor. Sensitive to cold. 
Sensation of burning and scratching in neck and cesophagus. 
Head.--Catarrhal headache due to closure of frontal sinuses. 
Eyes.--Dim sight. Stars and fiery points float before eyes. Easily fatigued from reading. 
Throat.--Throat dry; worse inhaling fresh air. Full feeling, burning and scraping sensation. 
Immediately after eating, sensation as if something stuck in cesophagus, causing swallowing. 
Respiratory.--Difficult breathing. Chronic bronchial catarrh. Large accumulation of purulent 
matter and feeble expectoration; worse cold weather. Mucus tough and hard. Heart beats 
stronger, extends to pit of stomach. Coarse rattling of chest in old people. 
Relationship.--Antidotes: Bry; Arnica. 
Compare: Senega; Tart emet; Balsam Peru. 
Dose.--Third trituration. 

AMPELOPSIS QUINQUEFOLIA 
Virginia Creeper 
(AMPELOPSIS) 
Renal dropsies, hydrocele, and chronic hoarseness in scrofulous patients have been benefited by 
this drug. Choleric symptoms. Generally worse about 6 pm. Dilated pupils. Left costal region 
sore and sensitive. Elbow joints pain, back sore. Soreness of all limbs. Vomiting, purging with 
tenesmus. Rumbling in abdomen. 
Dose.--Second to third potency. 

ANACARDIUM ORIENTALE 
Marking Nut 
(ANACARDIUM) 
The Anacardium patient is found mostly among the neurasthenics; such have a type of nervous 
dyspepsia, relieved by food; impaired memory, depression, and irritability; diminution of senses 
(smell, sight, hearing). Syphilitic patients often suffer with these conditions. Intermittency of 
symptoms. Fear of examination in students. Weakening of all senses, sight, hearing, etc. 
Aversion to work; lacks self-confidence; irresistible desire to swear and curse. Sensation of a 
plug in various parts-eyes, rectum, bladder, etc; also of a band. Empty feeling in stomach; eating 
temporarily relieves all discomfort. This is a sure indication, often verified. Its skin symptoms 
are similar to Rhus, and it has proved a valuable antidote to Poison-Oak. 
Mind.-—Fixed ideas. Hallucinations; thinks he is possessed of two persons or wills. Anxiety when 
walking, as if pursued. Profound melancholy and hypochondriasis, with tendency to use violent 
language. Brain-fag. Impaired memory. Absent mindedness. Very easily offended. Malicious; 
seems bent on wickedness. Lack of confidence in himself or others. Suspicious (Hyos). 
Clairaudient, hears voices far away or of the dead. Senile dementia. Absence of all moral 
restraint. 
Head.--Vertigo. Pressing pain, as from a plug; worse after mental exertion-in forehead; occiput, 
temples, vertex; better during a meal. Itching and little boils on scalp. 
Eyes.--Pressure like a plug on upper orbit. Indistinct vision. Objects appear too far off. 
Ears.--Pressing in the ears as from a plug. Hard of hearing. 
Nose.--Frequent sneezing. Sense of smell perverted. Coryza with palpitation, especially in the 
aged. 
Face.--Blue rings around eyes. Face pale. 
Mouth.—Painful vesicles; fetid odor. Tongue feels swollen, impending speech and motion, with 
saliva in mouth. Burning around lips as from pepper. 
Stomach.--Weak digestion, with fullness and distention. Empty feeling in stomach. Eructation, 
nausea, vomiting. Eating relieves the Anacardium dyspepsia. Apt to choke when eating or 
drinking. Swallows food and drinks hastily. 
Abdomen.--Pain as if dull plug were pressed into intestines. Rumbling, pinching, and griping. 
Rectum.--Bowels inactive. neffectual desire; rectum seems powerless, as if plugged up; 
spasmodic constriction of sphincter ani; even soft stool passes with difficulty. /tching at anus; 
moisture from rectum. Hemorrhage during stool. Painful hemorrhoids. 
Male.--Voluptuous itching; increased desire; seminal emissions without dreams. Prostatic 
discharge during stool. 
Female.--Leucorrhcea, with soreness and itching. Menses scanty. 
Respiratory.--Pressure in chest, as from a dull plug. Oppression of chest, with internal heat and 
anxiety, driving him into open air. Cough excited by talking, in children, after fit of temper. 
Cough after eating with vomiting of food and pain in occiput. 
Heart.--Palpitation, with weak memory, with coryza in the aged; stitches in heart region. 
Rheumatic pericarditis with double stitches. 
Back.--Dull pressure in the shoulders, as from a weight. Stiffness at nape of neck. 
Extremities.--Neuralgia in thumb. Paralytic weakness. Knees feel paralyzed or bandaged. 
Cramps in calves. Pressure as from a plug in the glutei. Warts on palms of hands. Fingers 
swollen with vesicular eruption. 
Sleep.--Spells of sleeplessness lasting for several nights. Anxious dreams. 
Skin.--/ntense itching, eczema, with mental irritability; vesicular eruption; swelling, urticaria; 
eruption like that of Poison-Oak (Xerophyl; Grindel; Croton). Lichen planus; neurotic eczema. 
Warts on hands. Ulcer formation on forearm. 
Modalities.--Worse, on application of hot water. Better, from eating. When lying on side, from 
rubbing. 
Relationship.--Antidote: Grindeleia; Coffea; Juglans; Rhus; Eucalyptus. 
Compare: Anacard occidentale (cashew nut) (erysipelas, vesicular facial eruptions), (anzesthetic 
variety of leprosy; warts, corns, ulcers, cracking of the skin on soles of feet). Rhus; Cypriped; 
Chelidon; Xerophyl. 
Platina follows well. Cereus serpentina (swearing). 
Dose.--Sixth to two hundredth potency. 

ANAGALLIS ARVENSIS 
Scarlet Pimpernel 
(ANAGALLIS) 
Marked action on skin, characterized by great itching and tingling everywhere. Favors expulsion 
of splinters. An old medicine for hydrophobia and dropsy. Possesses power of softening flesh 
and destroying warts. 
Head.--Great hilarity; headache over supra-orbital ridges, with rumbling in bowels and 
eructations; better from coffee. Sick headache. Pain in facial muscles. 
Extremities.--Rheumatic and gouty pains. Pain in shoulder and arm. Cramp in ball of thumbs 
and fingers. 
Urine.--More or less irritation in urethra, inclining to coition. Burning pain on urinating, with 
agglutination of orifice. Urine passes in several streams; must press before it passes. 
Skin.--/tching; dry, bran-like eruption, especially on hands and fingers. Palms especially 
affected. Vesicles in groups. Ulcers and swellings on joints. 
Relationship.--Anagallis contains Saponin, q. v. 
Compare: Cyclamen; Primula obcon. 
Dose.--First to third potency. 

ANANTHERUM MURICATUM 
Cuscus-An East Indian Grass 
(ANATHERUM) 
A skin remedy of high order. 
Painful swelling of various parts, going on to suppuration. Glandular inflammation. 
Head.--Pains pierce brain like pointed arrows; worse in afternoon. Herpes, ulcers, and tumors on 
scalp. Wartlike growth on eyebrows. Boils and tumors on tip of nose. Tongue fissured, as if cut 
on edges; copious salivation. 
Urine.--Turbid, thick, full of mucus. Constant urging. Bladder cannot hold smallest quantity. 
Involuntary. Cystitis. 
Sexual.--Chancre-like sores. Scirrhus-like swelling of cervix. Breasts swollen, indurated, nipples 
excoriated. 
Skin.--Diseased and deformed nails. Offensive foot-sweat. Abscesses boils, ulcers. Erysipelas. 
Pruritus, herpes. 
Relationship.--Compare: Staphisag; Mercur; Thuja. 
Dose.--Third potency. 

ANEMOPSIS CALIFORNICA 
Yerba Mansa-Household Herb 
A mucous membrane medicine. Chronic forms of inflammation of the Schneiderian membrane 
with considerable relaxation and profuse discharge. Chief value in catarrhal states, with full 
stuffy sensation in head and throat. Useful in cuts, bruises and sprains; and as a diuretic and in 
malaria. Not yet proven, but found useful in profuse mucous or serous discharges; in nasal and 
pharyngeal catarrh, diarrhoea and urethritis. Recommended in heart disease, as a quieting agent 
when unduly excited. Flatulence; promotes digestion. 
Relationship.--Compare Piper meth. 
Dose.--The tincture internally and locally as a spray. 

ANGUSTURA VERA 
Bark of Galipea Cusparia 
Rheumatic and paralytic complaints-great difficulty in walking. Crackling in all joints. 
The greatest craving for coffee is a characteristic symptom. Caries of long bones. Paralysis. 
Tetanus. Stiffness of muscles and joints. Oversensitive. 
Principal action on spinal motor nerves and mucous membranes. 
Head.--Oversensitive. Headache, with heat of face. Acute pain in cheeks. Drawing in facial 
muscles. Pain in temporal muscles, when opening the jaws. Pain in articulation of jaw, in 
masseter muscles, as if fatigued by chewing too much. Cramp-pain on the zygomatic arch. 
Stomach.--Bitter taste. /rresistible desire for coffee. Pain from navel into sternum. Atonic 
dyspepsia. Belching, with cough (Ambra). 
Abdomen.--Diarrhcea and colic. Tenesmus with soft stool; chronic diarrhoea, with debility and 
loss of flesh. Burning in anus. 
Back.--Itching along back. Pain in cervical vertebrae. Drawing in the neck. Pain in spine, at nape 
of neck and sacrum, worse on pressure. Twitching and jerking along back. Bends backward. 
Extremities.--Stiffness and tension of muscles and joints. Pain in limbs on walking. Arms tired 
and heavy. Caries of long bones. Coldness of fingers. Pain in knees. Cracking in joints. 
Skin.--Caries, very painful ulcers which affect the bone. 
Relationship.--Compare: Nux; Ruta; Mercur; Brucea. -Bark of Nux vomica or angustura falsa 
(Tetanic spasms with undisturbed consciousness, worse noise, liquids, paralyzed lower 
extremities, worse least touch, cries for fear of being touched. Painful jerking of legs; cramp-like 
pain in knees; rigid and lame limbs of paralytics. For pain in the passing of calculus). 
Dose.--Sixth potency. 

ANHALONIUM LEWINII 
Mescal Button 
(ANHALONIUM) 
Mescal is a strong intoxicating spirit distilled from Pulque fuerte. Pulque is made from the 
Agave Americana of Mexico, locally known as Maguey and is the national beverage of Mexico. 
Indians call it Peyote. It weakens the heart, produces insanity. Its most striking effects appear in 
the auditory nerve for it makes each note upon the piano a center of melody which seems to be 
surrounded by a halo of color pulsating to the rhythm of the music" (Hom. World). 
Causes a form of intoxication accompanied by wonderful visions, remarkably beautiful and 
varied kaleidoscopic changes, and a sensation of increased physical ability. Also visions of 
monsters and various gruesome forms. A cardiac tonic and respiratory stimulant. Hysteria and 
insomnia. A remedy for brainfag, delirium, megrim, hallucinations, with colored brilliant 
visions. Motor inco-ordination. Extreme muscular depression; increased patellar reflex. 
Paraplegia. 
Mind.—Loss of conception of time. Difficult enunciation. Distrust and resentment. Lazy 
contentment. 
Head.--Aches, with disturbed vision. Fantastic, brilliant, moving colored objects. Affected by 
beating time. Pupils dilated, vertigo, brain tired. Polychrome spectra. Exaggerated reverberation 
of ordinary sounds. 
Dose.--Tincture. 
Relationship.--Compare Agave. The intoxication of Anhalonium is similar to that of Cannabis 
Indica and Oenanthe. 

ANILINUM 
Coal Tar Product-Amidobenzene 
Marked giddiness and pain in head; face has a purple hue. Pain in penis and scrotum with 
swelling. Tumors of the urinary passages. Profound anzemia with discoloration of skin, blue lips, 
anorexia, gastric disturbances. Swelling of skin. 
Relationship.--Compare: Arsenic; Antipyrin. 

ANISUM STELLATUM 
Anise 
(ILLICIUM) 
Should be remembered in the treatment of flatulent conditions. So-called three-months' colic, 
especially if it recurs at regular hours; much rumbling in abdomen. One symptom is worthy of 
special remembrance-pain in region of third rib, about an inch or two from the sternum, 
generally on right side, but occasionally on left. Frequent cough with this pain. Purulent tracheal 
and gastric catarrh of old drunkards. Old asthmatics. Vomiting, epileptiform convulsions with 
biting of tongue. 
Nose.--Sharp stitches beneath lip. Acute catarrh. Burning and numbness of inner lower lip. 
Respiratory.--Dyspncea. Pain near third intercostal cartilage. Cough, with pus-like phlegm. 
Palpitation, with aphthe. Heemoptysis. 
Dose.--Third potency. 

ANTIMONIUM ARSENICOSUM 
Arsenite of Antimony 
Found useful in emphysema with excessive dyspneea and cough, much mucous secretion. Worse 
on eating and lying down. Catarrhal pneumonia associated with influenza. Myocarditis and 
cardiac weakness. Pleurisy, especially of left side, with exudation and pericarditis, with effusion. 
Sense of weakness. Inflammation of eyes and cedema of face. 
Dose.--Third trituration. 

ANTIMONIUM CRUDUM 
Black Sulphide of Antimony 
For homeopathic employment, the mental symptoms and those of the gastric sphere, determine 
its choice. Excessive irritability and fretfulness, together with a thickly-coated white tongue, are 
true guiding symptoms to many forms of disease calling for this remedy. All the conditions are 
aggravated by heat and cold bathing. Cannot bear heat of sun. Tendency to grow fat. An absence 
of pain, where it could be expected, is noticeable. Gout with gastric symptoms. 
Mind.—Much concerned about his fate. Cross and contradictive; whatever is done fails to give 
satisfaction. Sulky; does not wish to speak. Peevish; vexed without cause. Child cannot bear to 
be touched or looked at. Angry at every little attention. Sentimental mood. 
Head.--Aching, worse in vertex, on ascending, from bathing, from disordered stomach, 
especially from eating candy or drinking acid wines. Suppressed eruptions. Heaviness in 
forehead with vertigo; nausea, and nosebleed. Headache with great loss of hair. 
Eyes.--Dull, sunken, red, itch, inflamed, agglutinated. Canthi raw and fissured. Chronic 
blepharitis. Pustules on cornea and lids. 
Ears.--Redness; swelling; pain in eustachian tube. Ringing and deafness. Moist eruption around 
ear. 
Nose.--Nostrils chapped and covered with crusts. Eczema of nostrils, sore, cracked and scurfy. 
Face.--Pimples, pustules, and boils on face. Yellow crusted eruption on cheeks and chin. Sallow 
and haggard. 
Mouth.--Cracks in corners of mouth. Dry lips. Saltish saliva. Much slimy mucus. Tongue coated 
thick white, as if whitewashed. Gums detach from teeth; bleed easily. Toothache in hollow teeth. 
Rawness of palate, with expectoration of much mucus. Canker sores. Pappy taste. No thirst. 
Subacute eczema about mouth. 
Throat.--Much thick yellowish mucus from posterior nares. Hawking in open air. Laryngitis. 
Rough voice from over use. 
Stomach.--Loss of appetite. Desire for acids, pickles. Thirst in evening and night. Eructation 
tasting of the ingesta. Heartburn, nausea, vomiting. After nursing, the child vomits its milk in 
curds, and refuses to nurse afterwards, and is very cross. Gastric and intestinal complaints from 
bread and pastry, acids, sour wine, cold bathing, overheating, hot weather. Constant belching. 
Gouty metastasis to stomach and bowels. Sweetish waterbrash. Bloating after eating. 
Stool.--Anal itching (Sulpho-calc. Alum). diarrhea alternates with constipation, especially in 
old people. Diarrhoea after acids, sour wine, baths, overeating; slimy, flatulent stools. Mucous 
piles, continued oozing of mucus. Hard lumps mixed with watery discharge. Catarrhal proctitis. 
Stools composed entirely of mucus. 
Urine.--Frequent, with burning, and backache; turbid and foul odor. 
Male.--Eruption on scrotum and about genitals. Impotence. Atrophy of penis and testicles. 
Female.--Excited; parts itch. Before menses, toothache; menses too early and profuse. Menses 
suppressed from cold bathing, with feeling of pressure in pelvis and tenderness in ovarian region. 
Leucorrhoea watery; acrid, lumpy. 
Respiratory.--Cough worse coming into warm room, with burning sensation in chest, itching of 
chest, oppression. Loss of voice from becoming overheated. Voice harsh and badly pitched. 
Back.--Itching and pain of neck and back. 
Extremities.--Twitching of muscles. Jerks in arms. Arthritic pain in fingers. Nails brittle; grow 
out of shape. Horny warts on hands and soles. Weakness and shaking of hands in writing 
followed by offensive flatulence. Feet very tender; covered with large horny places. Inflamed 
corns. Pain in heels. 
Skin.--Eczema with gastric derangements. Pimples, vesicles, and pustules. Sensitive to cold 
bathing. Thick, hard, honey-colored scabs. Urticaria; measle-like eruption. Itching when warm 
in bed. Dry skin. Warts (Thuja; Sabina; Caust). Dry gangrene. Scaly, pustular eruption with 
burning and itching, worse at night. 
Sleep.--Continual drowsiness in old people. 
Fever.--Chilly even in warm room. Intermittent with disgust, nausea, vomiting, eructations, 
coated tongue, diarrhcea. Hot sweat. 
Modalities.--Worse, in evening, from heat, acids, wine, water, and washing. Wet poultices. 
Better, in open air, during rest. Moist warmth. 
Relationship.--Compare: Antimonium Chloridum. Butter of Antimony (A remedy for cancer. 
Mucous membranes destroyed. Abrasions. Skin cold and clammy. Great prostration of strength. 
Dose-third trituration). 
Antimon iodat (Uterine hyperplasia; humid asthma. Pneumonia and bronchitis; loss of strength, 
and appetite, yellowish skin, sweaty, dull and drowsy). In sub-acute and chronic colds in chest 
which have extended downwards from head and have fastened themselves upon the bronchial 
tubes in the form of hard, croupy cough with a decided wheeze and inability to raise the sputum, 
especially in the aged and weak patients (Bacmeister). Stage of resolution of pneumonia slow 
and delayed. 
Compare: Kermes mineral-Stibiat sulph rub (Bronchitis). Also Puls, Ipecac, Sulph. 
Complementary: Sulph. 
Antidote: Hepar. 
Dose.--Third to sixth potency. 

ANTIMONIUM SULPHURATUM AURATUM 
Golden Sulphuret of Antimony 
A remarkable remedy for many forms of chronic nasal and bronchial catarrh. Acne. Amaurosis. 
Nose and throat.--Nosebleed on washing. Increased secretion in nose and throat. Rough and 
scrapy feeling. Loss of smell. Metallic styptic taste. 
Respiratory.--Tickling in larynx. Increased mucus with fullness in bronchi. Respiration 
difficult, pressure in bronchi, with constriction. Tough mucus in bronchi and larynx. Dry hard 
cough. Congestion of upper lobe of left lung. Winter coughs patient is sore all over. Pneumonia, 
when hepatization occurred and resolution failed to take place. 
Skin.--Acne (pustular variety). Itching on hands and feet. 
Dose.--Second or third trituration. 

ANTIMONIUM TARTARICUM 
Tartar Emetic. Tartrate of Antimony and Potash 
Has many symptoms in common with Antimonium Crudum but also many peculiar to itself. 
Clinically, its therapeutic application has been confined largely to the treatment of respiratory 
diseases, rattling of mucus with little expectoration has been a guiding symptom. There is much 
drowsiness, debility and sweat characteristic of the drug, which group should always be more or 
less present, when the drug is prescribed. Gastric affections of drunkards and gouty subjects. 
Cholera morbus. Sensation of coldness in blood-vessels. Bilharziasis. Antimonium tart is 
homeopathic to dysuria, strangury, hematuria, albuminuria, catarrh of bladder and urethra, 
burning in rectum, bloody mucous stools, etc. Antimon tart acts indirectly on the parasites by 
stimulating the oxidizing action of the protective substance. By-effects following injection for 
Bilharziasis. Chills and contractures and pain in muscles. 
Trembling of whole body, great prostration and faintness. Lumbago. Chills, contractures and 
muscular pains. Warts on glans penis. 
Mind and Head.--Vertigo alternates with drowsiness. Great despondency. Fear of being alone. 
Muttering, delirium, and stupor. Vertigo, with dullness and confusion. Band-like feeling over 
forehead. Face pale and sunken. Child will not be touched without whining. Headache as froma 
band compressing (Jit ac). 
Tongue.--Coated, pasty, thick white, with red edges. Red and dry, especially in the center. 
Brown. 
Face.--Cold, blue, pale; covered with cold sweat. Incessant quivering of chin and lower jaw 
(Gelsem). 
Stomach.--Difficult deglutition of liquids. Vomiting in any position, excepting lying on right 
side. Nausea, retching, and vomiting, especially after food, with deathly faintness and 
prostration. Thirst for cold water, little and often, and desire for apples, fruits, and acids 
generally. Nausea produces fear; with pressure in precordial region, followed by headache with 
yawning and lachrymation and vomiting. 
Abdomen.--Spasmodic colic, much flatus. Pressure in abdomen, especially on stooping forward. 
Cholera morbus. Diarrhoea in eruptive diseases. 
Urinary.--Burning in urethra during and after urinating. Last drops bloody with pain in bladder. 
Urging increased. Catarrh of bladder and urethra. Stricture. Orchitis. 
Respiratory Organs.--Hoarseness. Great rattling of mucus, but very little is expectorated. 
Velvety feeling in chest. Burning sensation in chest, which ascends to throat. Rapid, short, 
difficult breathing; seems as if he would suffocate; must sit up. Emphysema of the aged. 
Coughing and gaping consecutively. Bronchial tubes overloaded with mucus. Cough excited by 
eating, with pain in chest and larynx. @dema and impending paralysis of lungs. Much 
palpitation, with uncomfortable hot feeling. Pulse rapid, weak, trembling. Dizziness, with cough. 
Dyspneea relieved by eructation. Cough and dyspnoea better lying on right side--(opposite 
Badiaga). 
Back.-- Violent pain in sacro-lumbar region. Slightest effort to move may cause retching and 
cold, clammy sweat. Sensation of heavy weight at the coccyx, dragging downward all the time. 
Twitching of muscles; limbs tremulous. 
Skin.--Pustular eruption, leaving a bluish-red mark. Small-pox. Warts. 
Fever.--Coldness, trembling, and chilliness. Intense heat. Copious perspiration. Cold, clammy 
sweat, with great faintness. Intermittent fever with lethargic condition. 
Sleep.--Great drowsiness. On falling asleep electric-like shocks. Irresistible inclination to sleep 
with nearly all complaints. 
Modalities.-- Worse, in evening; from lying down at night; from warmth; in damp cold weather; 
from all sour things and milk. Be/ter, from sitting erect; from eructation and expectoration. 
Relationship.--Antidotes: Puls; Sepia. 
Compare: Kali sulph; Ipecac. 
Dose.--Second and sixth trituration. The lower potencies sometimes aggravate. 

ANTHEMIS NOBILIS 
Roman Chamomile 
This remedy is akin to the ordinary Chamomilla. Gastric disturbance with coldness. Sensitive to 
cold air and cold things. 
Respiration.--Coryza with much lachrymation, sneezing, and discharge of clear water from the 
nose. Symptoms worse indoors. Constriction and rawness of throat. Cough, tickling; worse in 
warm room. 
Abdomen.--Aching in region of liver; griping and chilliness inside of abdomen and into legs. 
Itching of anus, with white putty-like stools. 
Urinary.--Bladder feels distended. Pain along spermatic cord, which feels full, as if varicosed. 
Frequent urination. 
Skin.--Itching of the soles, as if from chilblains. Gooseflesh. 
Dose.--Use the third potency. 

ANTHRACINUM 
Anthrax Poison 
This nosode has proven a great remedy in epidemic spleen diseases of domestic animals, and in 
septic inflammation, carbuncles and malignant ulcers. In boils and boil-like eruptions, acne. 
Terrible burning. Induration of cellular tissue, abscess, bubo, and all inflammation of connective 
tissue in which there exists a purulent focus. 
Tissues.--Hzemorrhages, black, thick, tar-like, rapidly decomposing, from any orifice. Glands 
swollen, cellular tissues edematous and indurated. Septicemia. Ulceration, sloughing and 
intolerable burning. Erysipelas. Black and blue blisters. Dissecting wounds. Insect stings. Bad 
effects from inhaling foul odors. Gangrenous parotitis. Succession of boils. Gangrene. Foul 
secretions. 
Relationship.--Similar to Arsenic, which it often follows. Compare: Pyrogen; Lachesis; 
Crotalus; Hippozoen; Echinac; Silica follows well. In the treatment of carbuncles, remember the 
prescription of the prophet Isaiah for King Hezekiah's carbuncle-i.e the pulp of a fig placed on a 
poultice and apply. 
Dose.--Thirtieth potency. Tarant. Cubensis. 

ANTHRACOKALI 
Anthracite Coal Dissolved in Boiling Caustic Potash 
(ANTHRAKOKALID 
Useful in skin affections, scabies, prurigo, chronic herpes, cracks and ulcerations. Papular-like 
eruption with a vesicular tendency, especially on scrotum, also on hands, tibia, shoulders and 
dorsum of feet. Intense thirst. Chronic rheumatism. Bilious attacks, vomiting of bile, tympanic 
distention of abdomen. 
Dose.--Low triturations. 

ANTIPYRINUM 
Phenazone-A Coal-tar Derivative 
(ANTIPYRINE) 
Antipyrine is one of the drugs that induce leucocytosis, similar to ergotin, salicylates, and 
tuberculin. Acts especially on the vaso-motor centers, causing dilation of capillaries of skin and 
consequent circumscribed patches of hyperzemia and swelling. In large doses causes profuse 
perspiration, dizziness, cyanosis, and somnolence, albumen and blood in urine. Acute erythema 
multiforme. 
Mind.—Fear of becoming insane; nervous anxiety; hallucinations of sight and hearing. 
Head.--Throbbing headache; sensation of constriction. Flashes of heat. Headache under ears 
with earache. 
Eyes.--Puffiness of lids. Conjunctiva red and oedematous, with lachrymation. Red spots (Apis). 
Ears.--Pains and buzzing. Tinnitus. 
Face.--(Edema and puffiness. Red and swollen. 
Mouth.-—Swelling of lips. Burning of mouth and gums. Ulceration of lips and tongue; vesicles 
and bullae. Small lump in cheek. Tongue swollen. Bloody saliva. Toothache along lower jaw. 
Throat.--Pain on swallowing. Expectoration of fetid pus. Abscess, white false membrane. 
Sensation of burning. 
Stomach.--Nausea and vomiting; burning and pain. 
Urine.--Diminished. Penis black. 
Female.--Itching and burning in vagina. Menses suppressed. Watery leucorrhcea. 
Respiratory.--Fluent coryza. Nasal mucous membrane swollen. Dull pains in frontal sinus. 
Aphonia. Oppression and dyspnoea. Cheyne-Stokes respiration. 
Heart.--Faintness, with sensation of stoppage of heart. Throbbing throughout the body. Rapid, 
weak, irregular pulse. 
Nerves.--Epileptiform seizures. Contractures. Trembling and cramps. Crawling and numbness. 
General prostration. 
Skin.--Erythema, eczema, pemphigus. /ntense pruritus. Urticaria, appearing and disappearing 
suddenly, with internal coldness. Angioneurotic-cedema. Dark blotches on skin of penis, 
sometimes with oedema. 
Dose.--Second decimal potency. 

APIUM GRAVEOLENS 
Common Celery 
Contains a soporific active principle. Obstinate retention of urine, throbbing headaches and 
heartburn, have been produced by celery. Swelling of throat, face, and hands. Rheumatic pain in 
muscles of neck also in sacrum. Growing pains. Hungry for apples. Dysmenorrhcea, with sharp, 
short pains, better flexing legs. 
Head.--Depressed; energetic; feeling of fidgets; cannot sleep from thinking. Headache; better 
eating. Eyeballs feel sunken. Itching in eyes. Itching and smarting in inner canthus of left eye. 
Abdomen.--Sore; sharp sticking pain as if stool was coming on; diarrhoea, sharp pain in left iliac 
region going over to right. Nausea increases with pains. 
Female.--Sharp sticking pains in both ovarian regions, left, better bending over, by lying on left 
side, with legs flexed; nipples tender. 
Respiratory.--Tickling, dry cough. Intense constriction over sternum, with drawing feeling 
through to back on lying down. Throat swollen, dyspneea. 
Skin.--Itching blotches; burning, creeping sensation. Profuse discharge from granulating ulcers. 
Urticaria with shuddering. 
Sleep.--Unrefreshed; sleepless. Wakes from | to 3 am.Eating does not help sleep. Not fatigued 
from loss of sleep. 
Dose.--First to thirtieth potency. 

APHIS CHENOPODI GLAUCI 
Plant-lice from Chenopodium 
(CHENOPODI GLAUCI APHIS) 
Partakes largely of the properties of the plant upon which the insect lives. 
Head.--Sad; aching, worse from motion. Brain seems swashed hither and thither. Coryza, with 
burning or biting in nostrils. Noise in ears, as of cannon. Yellow face. Orbital right neuralgia, 
with profuse lachrymation. Toothache, relieved by general warm sweat (Cham). Toothache 
extends to ear, temple, and cheek-bone (Plantago). 
Stomach.--No appetite for meat and bread. Vesicles at end of tongue. Much mucus. Colic with 
much rumbling and ineffectual urging to stool. 
Stools.--Hard and knotty. Diarrhoea in morning, with painful urging and burning in anus, and 
pressure in rectum and bladder. 
Urine.--Voluptuous feeling in glans. Burning in urethra. Urination frequent, copious, frothy. 
Back.--Severe pains in region of lower inner angle of left shoulder-blade, running into chest. 
Fever.--Shuddering all over; burning in palms; hot sweat in bed. 
Relationship.--Compare: Nat sulph; Nux. 
Dose.--Sixth to thirtieth potency. 

APIS MELLIFICA 
The Honey-Bee 
Acts on cellular tissues causing $dema of skin and mucous membranes. 
The very characteristic effects of the sting of the bee furnish unerring indications for its 
employment in disease. Swelling or puffing up of various parts, sdema, red rosy hue, stinging 
pains, soreness, intolerance of heat, and slightest touch, and afternoon aggravation are some of 
the general guiding symptoms. Erysipelatous inflammations, dropsical effusions and anasarca, 
acute, inflammation of kidneys, and other perenchymatous tissues are characteristic pathological 
states corresponding to Apis. Apis acts especially on outer parts, skin, coatings of inner organs, 
serous membranes. It produces serous inflammation with effusion, membranes of brain, heart, 
pleuritic effusion, etc. Extreme sensitiveness to touch and general soreness is marked. 
Constricted sensations. Sensation of stiffness and as of something torn off in the interior of the 
body. Much prostration. 
Mind.--Apathy, indifference, and unconsciousness. Awkward; drops things readily. Stupor, with 
sudden sharp cries and startings. Stupor alternating with erotic mania. Sensation of dying. 
Listless; cannot think clearly. Jealous, fidgety, hard to please. Sudden shrill, piercing screams. 
Whining. Tearfulness. Jealously, fright, rage, vexation, grief. Cannot concentrate mind when 
attempting to read or study. 
Head.--Whole brain feels very tired. Vertigo with sneezing, worse on lying or closing eyes. 
Heat, throbbing, distensive pains, better on pressure, and worse on motion. Sudden stabbing 
pains. Dull, heavy sensation in occiput, as from a blow, extending to neck (better on pressure), 
accompanied with sexual excitement. Bores head into pillow and screams out. 
Eyes.--Lids swollen, red, sdematous, everted, inflamed; burn and sting. Conjunctiva bright red, 
puffy. Lachrymation hot. Photophobia. Sudden piercing pains. Pain around orbits. Serous 
exudation, Sdema, and sharp pains. Suppurative inflammation of eyes. Keratitis with intense 
chemosis of ocular conjunctiva. Staphyloma of cornea following suppurative inflammation. 
Styes, also prevents their recurrence. 
Ears.--External ear red, inflamed, sore; stinging pains. 
Nose.--Coldness of tips of nose. Red, swollen, inflamed, with sharp pains. 
Face.--Swollen, red, with piercing pain. Waxy, pale, Sdematous. Erysipelas with stinging 
burning Sdema. Extends from right to left. 
Mouth.—Tongue fiery red, swollen, sore, and raw, with vesicles. Scalding in mouth and throat. 
Tongue feels scalded, red hot, trembling. Gums swollen. Lips swollen, especially upper. 
Membrane of mouth and throat glossy, as if varnished. Red, shining, and puffy, like erysipelas. 
Cancer of the tongue. 
Throat.--Constricted, stinging pains. Uvula swollen, sac-like. Throat swollen, inside and out; 
tonsils swollen, puffy, fiery red. Ulcers on tonsils. Fiery red margin around leathery membrane. 
Sensation of fishbone in throat. 
Stomach.--Sore feeling. Thirstless. Vomiting of food. Craving for milk (Rhus). 
Abdomen.--Sore, bruised on pressure, when sneezing. Extremely tender. Dropsy of abdomen. 
Peritonitis. Swelling in right groin. 
Stool.--Involuntary on every motion; anus seems open. Bloody, painless. Anus feels raw. 
Hémorrhoids, with stinging pain, after confinement. Diarrhsa watery, yellow; cholera infantum 
type. Cannot urinate without a stool. Dark, fetid, worse after eating. Constipation; feels as if 
something would break on straining. 
Urine.--Burning and soreness when urinating. Suppressed, loaded with casts; frequent and 
involuntary; stinging pain and strangury; scanty, high colored. Incontinence. Last drops burn and 
smart. 
Female.--Sdema of labia; relieved by cold water. Soreness and stinging pains; ovaritis; worse in 
right ovary. Menses suppressed, with cerebral and head symptoms, especially in young girls. 
DysmenorrhSa, with severe ovarian pains. Metrorrhagia profuse, with heavy abdomen, faintness, 
stinging pain. Sense of tightness. Bearing-down, as if menses were to appear. Ovarian tumors, 
metritis with stinging pains. Great tenderness over abdomen and uterine region. 
Respiratory.--Hoarseness; dyspnéa, breathing hurried and difficult. Sdema of larynx. Feels as if 
he could not draw another breath. Suffocation; short, dry cough, suprasternal. Hydrothorax. 
Extremities.--Sdematous. Synovitis. Felon in beginning. Knee swollen, shiny, sensitive, sore, 
with stinging pain. Feet swollen and stiff. Feel too large. Rheumatic pain in back and limbs; 
Tired, bruised feeling. Numbness of hands and tips of fingers. Hives with intolerable itching. 
Sdematous swellings. 
Skin.--Swellings after bites; sore, sensitive. Stinging. Erysipelas, with sensitiveness and 
swelling, rosy hue. Carbuncles, with burning, stinging pain (Ars; Anthrac). Sudden puffing up of 
whole body. 
Sleep.--Very drowsy. Dreams full of care and toil. Screams and sudden starting during sleep. 
Fever.--Afternoon chill, with thirst; worse on motion and heat. External heat, with smothering 
feeling. Sweat slight, with sleepiness. Perspiration breaks out and dries up frequently. Sleeps 
after the fever paroxysm. After perspiration, nettle rash, also with shuddering. 
Modalities.--Worse, heat in any form; touch; pressure; late in afternoon; after sleeping; in closed 
and heated rooms. Right side. Better, in open air, uncovering, and cold bathing. 
Relationship.--Complementary.: Nat mur. The "chronic", Apis; also Baryta carb, if lymphatics 
are involved. Inimical. Rhus. 
Compare: Apium virus (auto-tox¢émia, with pus products); Zinc; Canth; Vespa; Lachesis. 
Dose.--Tincture to thirtieth potency. In Sdematous conditions the lower potencies. Sometimes 
action is slow; so several days elapse before it is seen to act, and then urine is increased. Apium 
virus, sixth trituration. 

APOCYNUM CANNABINUM 
Indian Hemp 
Increases secretions of mucous and serous membranes and acts on cellular tissue, producing 
oedema and dropsy and on skin causing diaphoresis. Acute hydrocephalus. A diminished 
frequency of the pulse is a prime indication. This is one of our most efficient remedies, in 
dropsies, ascites, anasarca and hydrothorax, and urinary troubles, especially suppression and 
strangury. In the digestive complaints of Bright's disease, with the nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, 
difficult breathing, it will be found of frequent service. The dropsy is characterized by great thirst 
and gastric irritability. Arrhythmia. Mitral and tricuspid regurgitation. Acute alcoholism. 
Relaxation of sphincters. 
Mind.—Bewildered. Low spirited. 
Nose.--Long-continued sneezing. Snuffles of children (Sambucus). Chronic nasal catarrh with 
tendency to acute stuffiness with dull, sluggish memory. Dull headache. Takes cold easily, 
nostrils become congested and blocked up easily. 
Stomach.--Nausea, with drowsiness. Thirst on walking. Excessive vomiting. Food or water is 
immediately ejected. Dull, heavy, sick feeling. Oppression in epigastrium and chest, impeding 
breathing (Lobelia infl). Sensation of sinking in stomach. Abdomen bloated. Ascites. 
Stool.-- Watery, flatulent, with soreness in anus; worse after eating. Feeling as if sphincter were 
open and stools ran right out. 
Urine.--Bladder much distended. Turbid, hot urine, with thick mucus and burning in urethra, 
after urinating. Little expulsive power. Dribbling. Strangury. Renal Dropsy. 
Female.--Amenorrheea, with bloating; metrorrhagia with nausea; fainting, vital depression. 
Heemorrhages at change of life. Blood expelled in large clots. 
Respiratory.--Short, dry cough. Respiratory short and unsatisfactory. Sighing. Oppression 
about epigastrium and chest. 
Heart.--Tricuspid regurgitation; rapid and feeble, irregular cardiac action, low arterial tension, 
pulsating jugulars, general cyanosis and general dropsy. 
Sleep.--Great restlessness and little sleep. 
Modalities.-- Worse, cold weather; cold drinks; uncovering. 
Relationship.--Cymarin is the active principle of Apocyn, lowers pulse rate and increases blood- 
pressure. Strophanthus (extreme cardiac depression with intense gastric disturbance; dropsy). 
Aralia hispida-Wild Elder-a valuable diuretic, useful in dropsy of the cavities, either due to 
hepatic or renal disease with constipation. Urinary disorders, especially with dropsy. Scudder 
advises doses of five to thirty drops in sweetened cream of tartar, (Solution). Apis, Arsenic, 
Digital; Helleb. 
Dose.--Tincture (ten drops three times daily) and in acute alcoholism 1 dram of decoction in 4 0z 
water. 

APOCYNUM ANDROSAEMIFOLIUM 
Dogbane 
The rheumatic symptoms of this remedy promise most curative results. Its pains are of a 
wandering nature, with much stiffness and drawing. Everything smells and tastes like honey. 
Worms. Trembling and prostration. Swollen sensations. 
Extremities.--Pain in all joints. Pain in toes and soles. Swelling of hands and feet. Profuse sweat, 
with much heat in soles. Tingling pain in toes. Cramps in soles. Violent heat in soles (Su/ph). 
Dose.--Tincture and first potency. 

APOMORPHINUM 
Alkaloid from Decomposition of Morphine by Hydrochloric Acid 
(APOMORPHIA) 
The chief power of this drug lies in the speedy and effective vomiting that it produces, which 
becomes a strong guiding symptom to its homeopathic use. The vomiting is preceded by nausea, 
lassitude and increased secretion of sweat, saliva, mucus and tears. Pneumonia with vomiting. 
Combined alcoholism, with constant nausea, constipation, insomnia. 
Head and Stomach.--Vertigo. Dilated pupils. Nausea and vomiting. Violent inclination to 
vomit. Hot feeling all over body, especially head. Empty retching and headache; heartburn; pain 
between shoulder-blades. Reflex vomiting-pregnancy. Seasickness. 
Non-homeopathic Uses.--The hypodermic injection of one-sixteenth of a grain will cause full 
emesis within five to fifteen minutes in an adult without developing any other direct action 
apparently. Do not use in opium poisoning. Apomorph hypodermically, one-thirtieth grain or 
less, acts as a safe and sure hypnotic. Acts well even in delirium. Sleep comes on in half an hour. 
Dose.--Third to sixth potency. 

AQUILEGIA VULGARIS 
Columbine 
(AQUILEGIA) 
A remedy for hysteria. Globus and clavus hystericus. Women at climaxis, with vomiting of green 
substance, especially in the morning. S/eeplessness. Nervous trembling of body; sensitive to light 
and noise. Dysmenorrheea of young girls. 
Female.--Menses scanty, with dull, painful, nightly increasing pressure in the right lumbar 
region. 
Dose.--First potency. 

ARAGALLUS LAMBERTI 
White Loco Weed-Rattle Weed 
Acts principally on nervous system, producing a bewildered, confused state. Symptoms of 
incoordination and paralysis. Locomotor ataxia. Tired in the morning. 
Mind.--Great depression; worse in morning or evening. Cannot study. Cross, irritable, restless. 
Bewildered. Mental confusion and apathy. Desires to be alone. Difficulty in concentrating mind, 
absent-minded. Lack of ambition. Defective expression in writing. Restlessness and aimless 
wandering. Must concentrate his mind on walking. 
Head.--Diplopia. Burning in eyes. Cracking of lower lip. 
Throat.--Aches. Feels dull. Sore with nausea. Pharynx dark, swollen, glazed. 
Respiratory.--Weight on chest in region of ensiform cartilage. Constriction as of a wide band. 
Soreness of chest under sternum. Oppression. 
Extremities.--Weakness of limbs. Pain in left sciatic nerve. Cramps of muscles on front of leg 
while walking. 
Relationship.--Compare: Astragallus and Oxytropis, two varieties of Loco Weed; also Baryta. 
Dose.--Sixth and two hundredth potencies. 

ARALIA RACEMOSA 
American Spikenard 
This is a remedy for asthmatic conditions, with cough aggravated on lying down. Drenching 
sweat during sleep. Extreme sensitiveness to draughts. Diarrhoea, prolapse of rectum. Aching in 
rectum extending upwards; worse lying on side lain upon. 
Respiratory.--Dry cough coming on after first sleep, about middle of night. Asthma on lying 
down at night with spasmodic cough; worse after first sleep, with tickling in throat. Constriction 
of chest; feels as if a foreign body were in throat. Obstruction worse in spring. Hay-fever; 
frequent sneezing. Rawness and burning behind sternum. 
The least current of air causes sneezing, with copious watery, excoriating nasal discharge, of 
salty acrid taste. 
Female.--Menses suppressed; leucorrhcea foul-smelling, acrid, with pressing-down air. Lochia 
suppressed, with tympanites. 
Modalities.-- Worse about 11 pm (cough). 
Relationship.--Compare: Pecten-Scallop (humid asthma. Quick, labored breathing. Constriction 
of chest, especially right side. Asthma preceded by coryza and burning in throat and chest. 
Attacks ends with copious expectoration of tough, frothy mucus. Worse at night). Ars iod; 
Naphthaline; Cepa; Rosa; Sabad; Sinapis. 
Dose.--Tincture, to third potency. 

ARANEA DIADEMA 
Papal-Cross Spider 
All spider poisons powerfully affect the nervous system (See tarentula, Mygale, etc). 
All symptoms of Aranea are characterized by periodicity, and coldness, and great susceptibility 
to dampness. It is the remedy for the constitution favorable to malarial poisoning, where every 
damp day or place favors chilliness. Patient feels cold to the very bones. Coldness not relieved 
by anything. Feeling as if parts were enlarged and heavier. Wake up at night with hands feeling 
twice their natural size. Spleen swollen. Hydrogenoid Constitution, i.e, Abnormal sensitiveness 
to damp and cold, inability to live near fresh water, lakes, rivers, etc, or in damp, chilly places 
(Nat. Sulph. Thuja). 
Head.--Pain in right trifacial nerve from periphery inwards. Confusion; better by smoking in 
open air. Heat and flickering in eyes; worse in damp weather. Sudden violent pain in teeth at 
night immediately after lying down. 
Female.--Menses too early, too copious. Distention of abdomen. Lumbo-abdominal neuralgia. 
Chest.--Pain in intercostal nerve from nerve endings to spine. Bright red hemorrhage from lungs 
(Millefol; Ferr phos). 
Stomach.--Cramps after eating a little; epigastrium painful to pressure. 
Abdomen.--Enlarged spleen. Colic returns same hours. Heaviness in lower abdomen, as of a 
stone. Diarrhoea. Arms and legs feel as if asleep. 
Extremities.--Bone-pains in extremities. Pain in os calcis. Sensation of swelling, and of parts 
going to sleep. 
Sleep.--Restless and waking, as if hands and forearms were swollen and heavy. 
Fever.--Coldness, with pain in long bones, and feeling of stone in abdomen at the same hour 
daily. Chilly day and night; always worse during rain. 
Modalities.-- Worse, damp weather; late in afternoon, and at midnight. Better, smoking tobacco. 
Relationship.--7e/a aranearum-Spider's web.--Cardiac sleeplessness, increased muscular 
energy. Excitement and nervous agitation in febrile states. Dry asthma, harassing coughs; 
periodic headaches with extreme nervous erethism. Obstinate intermittents. Acts immediately on 
arterial system, pulse full, strong, compressible. 
Lowers pulse rate frequency. Masked periodical diseases, hectic, broken down patients. 
Symptoms come on suddenly with cool, clammy skin. Numbness of hands and legs when at rest. 
Continued chilliness. 
Aranea Scinencia-Grey Spider--(constant twitching of under eyelids. Sleepiness. Worse in warm 
room). 
Heloderma; Cedron; Arsenic. 
Dose.--Tincture to thirtieth potency. 

ARBUTUS ANDRACHNE 
Strawberry Tree 
A remedy for eczema associated with gouty and rheumatic symptoms. Arthritis; especially larger 
joints. Urine rendered more clear. Lumbago. Symptoms shift from skin to joints. Vesical 
symptoms. 
Relationship.--Arbutin; Ledum,; Bryonia; Kalmia. 
Dose.--Tincture, to third potency. 

ARECA CATECHU 
Betel Nut 
(ARECA) 
Of use in Helminthiasis. Its alkaloid, Areolin Hydrobrom contracts the pupil, acting more 
promptly and energetically but of shorter duration than Eserine. Serviceable in glaucoma. Acts 
also as a salivatory like Pilocarpin. Also increases the amplitude of pulsations of the heart and 
promotes the contractility of the intestines. 

ARGENTUM METALLICUM 
Silver 
Emaciation, a gradual drying up, desire for fresh air, dyspnoea, sensation of expansion and left- 
sided pains are characteristic. The chief action is centered on the articulations and their 
component elements, bones, cartilages, and ligament's. Here the small blood vessels become 
closed up or withered and carious affections result. They come on insidiously, lingering, but 
progress. The larynx is also a special center for this drug. 
Mental.--Hurried feeling; time passes slowly; melancholy. 
Head.--Dull paroxysmal neuralgia over left side, gradually increasing and ceasing suddenly. 
Scalp very tender to touch. Vertigo, with intoxicated feeling, on looking at running water. Head 
feels empty, hollow. Eyelids red and thick. Exhausting coryza, with sneezing. Pain in facial 
bones. Pain between left eye and frontal eminence. 
Throat.--Raw, hawking, gray, jelly-like mucus, and throat sore on coughing. Profuse and easy 
morning expectoration. 
Respiratory.--Hoarseness Aphonia. Raw, sore feeling when coughing. Total loss of voice of 
professional singers. Larynx feels sore and raw. Easy expectoration, looking like boiled starch. 
Feeling of raw spot near supra sternal fossa. Worse from use of voice. Cough from laughing. 
Hectic fever at noon. On reading aloud, must hem and hawk. Great weakness of chest; worse left 
side. Alteration in timbre of voice. Pain in left lower ribs. 
Back.--Severe backache; must walk bent, with oppression of chest. 
Urine.--Diuresis. Urine profuse, turbid, sweet odor. Frequent urination. Polyuria. 
Extremities.--Rheumatic affections of joints, especially elbow and knee. Legs weak and 
trembling, worse descending stairs. Involuntary contractions of fingers, partial paralysis of 
forearm; writer's cramp. Swelling of ankles. 
Male.--Crushed pain in testicles. Seminal emissions, without sexual excitement. Frequent 
micturation with burning. 
Female.--Ovaries feel too large. Bearing-down pain. Prolapse of womb. Eroded spongy cervix. 
Leucorrhea foul, excoriating. Palliative in scirrhus of uterus. Pain in left ovary. Climateric 
hemorrhage. Sore feeling; throughout abdomen; worse by jarring. Uterine disease with pain in 
joints and limbs. 
Modalities.-- Worse from touch, toward noon. Better in open air; cough at night when lying 
down (opposite Hyoscy). 
Relationship.--Antidotes: Mercur; Puls. 
Compare: Selen; Alum; Platina; Stannum; Ampelopsis (Chronic hoarseness in scrofulous 
patients). 
Dose.--Sixth trituration and higher. Not too frequent repetition. 

ARGENTUM NITRICUM 
Nitrate of Silver 
In this drug the neurotic effects are very marked, many brain and spinal symptoms presenting; 
themselves which give certain indications for its homeopathic employment. Symptoms of inco- 
ordination, loss of control and want of balance everywhere, mentally and physically; trembling 
in affected parts. Is an irritant of mucous membranes, producing violent inflammation of the 
throat, and a marked gastro-enteritis. Very characteristic is the great desire for sweets, the 
splinter-like pains, and free muco-purulent discharge in the inflamed and ulcerated mucous 
membranes. Sensation as if a part were expanding and other errors of perception are 
characteristic. Withered up and dried constitutions present a favorable field for its action, 
especially when associated with unusual or long continued mental exertion. Head symptoms 
often determine the choice of this remedy. Pains increase and decrease gradually. Flatulent state 
and prematurely aged look. Explosive belching especially in neurotics. Upper abdominal 
affections brought on by undue mental exertion. Paraplegia Myelitis and disseminated sclerosis 
of brain and cord. /ntolerance of heat. Sensation of a sudden pinch (Dudgeon). Destroys red 
blood corpuscles, producing anzemia. 
Mind.—Thinks his understanding will and must fail. Fearful and nervous; impulse to jump out of 
window. Faintish and tremulous. Melancholic; apprehensive of serious disease. Time passes 
slowly (Cann ind). Memory weak. Errors of perception. Jmpulsive; wants to do things in a hurry 
(Lilium). Peculiar mental impulses. Fears and anxieties and hidden irrational motives for actions. 
Head.--Headache with coldness and trembling. Emotional disturbances cause appearance of 
hemi-cranial attacks. Sense of expansion. Brain-fag, with general debility and trembling. 
Headache from mental exertion, from dancing. Vertigo, with buzzing in ears and with nervous 
affections. Aching in frontal eminence, with enlarged feeling in corresponding eye. Boring pain; 
better on tight bandaging and pressure. Itching of scalp. Hemi-crania; bones of head feel as if 
separated. 
Eyes.--Inner canthi swollen and red. Spots before the vision. Blurred vision. Photophobia in 
warm room. Purulent ophthalmia. Great swelling of conjunctiva; discharge abundant and 
purulent. Chronic ulceration of margin of lids; sore, thick, swollen. Unable to keep eyes fixed 
steadily. Eye-strain from sewing; worse in warm room. Aching, tired feeling in eyes, better 
closing or pressing upon them. Useful in restoring power to the weakened ciliary muscles. 
Paretic condition of ciliary muscle. Acute granular conjunctivitis. Cornea opaque. Ulcer in 
cornea. 
Nose.--Loss of smell. Itching. Ulcers in septum. Coryza, with chilliness, lachrymation, and 
headache. 
Face.--Sunken, old, pale, and bluish. Old man's look; tight drawing of skin over bones. 
Mouth.--Gums tender and bleed easily. Tongue has prominent papillz; tip is red and painful. 
Pain in sound teeth. Taste coppery, like ink. Canker sores. 
Throat.--Much thick mucus in throat and mouth causes hawking. Raw, rough and sore. 
Sensation of a splinter in throat on swallowing. Dark redness of throat. Catarrh of smokers, with 
tickling as of hair in throat. Strangulated feeling. 
Stomach.--Belching accompanies most gastric ailments. Nausea, retching, vomiting of glairy 
mucus. Flatulence; painful swelling of pit. Painful spot over stomach that radiates to all parts of 
the abdomen. Gnawing ulcerating pain; burning and constriction. Ineffectual effort at eructation. 
Great craving for sweets. Gastritis of drunkards. Ulcerative pain in left side under ribs. 
Trembling and throbbing in stomach. Enormous distention. Ulceration of stomach, with 
radiating pain. Desire for cheese and salt. 
Abdomen.--Colic, with much flatulent distention. Stitchy ulcerative pain on left side of stomach, 
below short ribs. 
Stool.--Watery, noisy, flatulent; green, like chopped spinach, with shreddy mucus and enormous 
distention of abdomen; very offensive. Diarrhoea immediately after eating or drinking. Fluids go 
right through him; after sweets. After any emotion with flatulence. Itching of anus. 
Urine.--Urine passes unconsciously, day and night. Urethra inflamed, with pain, burning, 
itching; pain as from a splinter. Urine scanty and dark. Emission of a few drops after having 
finished. Divided stream. Early stage of gonorrhoea; profuse discharge and terrible cutting pains; 
bloody urine. 
Male.--Impotence. Erection fails when coition is attempted. Cancer-like ulcers. Desire wanting. 
Genitals shrivel. Coition painful. 
Female.--Gastralgia at beginning of menses. Intense spasm of chest muscles. Organs at night. 
Nervous erethism at change of life. Leucorrhoea profuse, with erosion of cervix bleeding easily. 
Uterine hemorrhage, two weeks after menses; Painful affections of left ovary. 
Respiratory.--High notes cause cough. Chronic hoarseness. Suffocative cough, as if from a hair 
in throat. Dyspnoea. Chest feels as if a bar were around it. Palpitation, pulse irregular and 
intermittent; worse lying on right side; (Alumen). Painful spots in chest. Angina pectoris, nightly 
aggravation. Many people in a room seem to take away his breath. 
Back.--Much pain. Spine sensitive with nocturnal pains, (Oxal acid) paraplegia; posterior spinal 
sclerosis. 
Extremities.--Cannot walk with eyes closed. Trembling, with general debility. Paralysis, with 
mental and abdominal symptoms. Rigidity of calves. Debility in calves especially. Walks and 
stands unsteadily, especially when unobserved. Numbness of arms. Post-diphtheritic paralysis 
(after Gelsem). 
Skin.--Brown, tense, and hard. Drawing in skin, as from a spider-web, or dried albuminous 
substance, withered and dried up. Irregular blotches. 
Sleep.--Sleepless, from fancies before his imagination; horrible dreams of snakes, and of sexual 
gratification. Drowsy stupor. 
Fever.--Chills with nausea. Chilly when uncovered, yet feels smothered if wrapped up. 
Modalities.-- Worse, warmth in any form; at night; from cold food; sweets; after eating; at 
menstrual period; from emotions, /eft side. Better, from eructation; fresh air; cold; pressure. 
Relationship.--Antidote: Nat mur. 
Compare: Ars; Merc; Phos; Pulsat. Argent cyanatum (angina pectoris, asthma, spasm of 
cesophagus) Argent iodat (throat disorders, hoarseness, gland affected). Protargol (gonorrhoea 
after acute stage 2 per cent solution; syphilitic mucous patches, chancres and chancroids, 10 per 
cent solution applied twice a day; ophthalmia neonatorum, 2 drops of 10 per cent solution). 
Argent phosph (An excellent diuretic in dropsy). 
Argent oxyd (Chlorosis with menorrhagia and diarrhcea). 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. 
Best form an aqueous solution | to 9, 2 or 3 drops doses. This solution in water preferable to 
lower triturations; unless fresh, these readily decompose into the oxide. 

ARGEMONE MEXICANA 
Prickly Poppy 
Colicky cramp and spasm of bowels. Painful neuro-muscular conditions, preventing sleep. 
Rheumatic disease associated with Bright's disease (D. MacFarlan). 
Head.--Throbbing headache in eyes and temples. Head hot. Throat very dry, pain on swallowing. 
Stomach.--Feels sick, like vomiting. Griping in pit of stomach. No appetite. Belching and 
passing gas. 
Urinary.--Passes less urine. Changing color. 
Female.--Menses suppressed. Diminished sexual desire with weakness. 
Extremities.--Left knee stiff and painful. Feet swollen. 
Modalities.-- Worse at noon (weakness). 
Dose.--Sixth potency. Fresh juice is applied to ulcers and warts. 

ARISTOLOCHIA MILHOMENS 
Brazilian Snake Root 
Stitching pains in various parts. Pain in heels, burning in anus and frequent irritation. Flatulence 
in stomach and abdomen. Pain in back and extremities. Stiffness of legs. Pain in tendo-Achillis. 
Itching and swelling around the malleoli. 
Relationship.--Compare: Aristolochia Serpentaria-Virginia Snake Root--(Symptoms of 
intestinal tract; colliquative diarrhoea, meteorism. Flatulent dyspepsia. Brain congestion. 
Distention and cutting pains in abdomen. Symptoms like those of Poison-Oak). 
Dose.--Lower potencies. 

ARNICA MONTANA 
Leopard's Bane 
(ARNICA) 
Produces conditions upon the system quite similar to those resulting from injuries, falls, blows, 
contusions. Tinnitus aurium. Putrid phenomena. Septic conditions; prophylactic of pus infection. 
Apoplexy, red, full face. 
It is especially suited to cases when any injury, however remote, seems to have caused the 
present trouble. After traumatic injuries, overuse of any organ, strains. Arnica is disposed to 
cerebral congestion. Acts best in plethoric, feebly in debilitated with impoverished blood, cardiac 
dropsy with dyspnoea. A muscular tonic. Traumatism of grief, remorse or sudden realization of 
financial loss. Limbs and body ache as if beaten; joints as if sprained. Bed feels too hard. Marked 
effect on the blood. Affects the venous system inducing stasis. Echymosis and hemorrhages. 
Relaxed blood vessels, black and blue spots. Tendency to hemorrhage and low-fever states. 
Tendency to tissue degeneration, septic conditions, abscesses that do not mature. Sore, lame, 
bruised feeling. Neuralgias originating in disturbances of pneumo-gastric. Rheumatism of 
muscular and tendinous tissue, especially of back and shoulders. Aversion to tobacco. /nfluenza. 
Thrombosis. Hematocele. 
Mind.--Fears touch, or the approach of anyone. Unconscious; when spoken to answers correctly, 
but relapses. Indifference; inability to perform continuous active work; morose, delirious. 
Nervous; cannot bear pain; whole body oversensitive. Says there is nothing the matter with him. 
Wants to be let alone. Agoraphobia (fear of space). After mental strain or shock. 
Head.--Hot, with cold body; confused; sensitiveness of brain, with sharp, pinching pains. Scalp 
feels contracted. Cold spot on forehead. Chronic vertigo; objects whirl about especially when 
walking. 
Eyes.--Diplopia from traumatism, muscular paralysis, retinal hemorrhage. Bruised, sore feeling 
in eyes after close work. Must keep eyes open. Dizzy on closing them. Feel tired and weary after 
sight-seeing, moving pictures, etc. 
Ears.--Noises in ear caused by rush of blood to the head. Shooting in and around ears. Blood 
from ears. Dullness of hearing after concussion. Pain in cartilages of ears as if bruised. 
Nose.--Bleeding after every fit of coughing, dark fluid blood. Nose feels sore; cold. 
Mouth.--Fetid breath. Dry and thirsty. Bitter taste (Colocy). Taste as from bad eggs. Soreness of 
gums after teeth extraction (Sepia). Empyeema of maxillary sinus. 
Face.--Sunken; very red. Heat in lips. Herpes in face. 
Stomach.--Longing for vinegar. Distaste for milk and meat. Canine hunger. Vomiting of blood. 
Pain in stomach during eating. Repletion with loathing. Oppressive gases pass upward and 
downward. Pressure as from a stone. Feeling as if stomach were passing against spine. Fetid 
vomiting. 
Abdomen.--Stitches under false ribs. Distended; offensive flatus. Sharp thrusts through 
abdomen. 
Stool.--Straining of tenesmus in diarrhea. Offensive, brown, bloody, putrid, involuntary. Looks 
like brown yeast. Must lie down after every stool. Diarrhoea of consumption; worse lying on left 
side. Dysenteric stools with muscular pains. 
Urine.--Retained from over-exertion. Dark brick-red sediment. Vesical tenesmus with very 
painful micturition. 
Female.--Bruised parts after labor. Violent after-pains. Uterine hemorrhage from mechanical 
injury after coition. Sore nipples. Mastitis from injury. Feeling as if foetus were lying crosswise. 
Respiratory.--Coughs depending on cardiac lesion, paroxysmal, at night, during sleep, worse 
exercise. Acute tonsillitis, swelling of soft palate and uvula. Pneumonia; approaching paralysis. 
Hoarseness from overuse of voice. Raw, sore feeling in morning. Cough produced by weeping 
and lamenting. Dry, from tickling low down in trachea. Bloody expectoration. Dyspnoea with 
hemoptysis. All bones and cartilages of chest painful. Violent spasmodic cough, with facial 
herpes. Whooping cough, child cries before coughing. Pleurodynia (Ranunc; Cimicif). 
Heart.--Angina pectoris; pain especially severe in elbow of left arm. Stitches in heart. Pulse 
feeble and irregular. Cardiac dropsy with distressing dyspnoea. Extremities distended, feel 
bruised and sore. Fatty heart and hypertrophy. 
Extremities.--Gout. Great fear of being touched or approached. Pain in back and limbs, as if 
bruised or beaten. Sprained and dislocated feeling. Soreness after overexertion. Everything on 
which he lies seems too hard. Deathly coldness of forearm. Cannot walk erect, on account of 
bruised pain in pelvic region. Rheumatism begins low down and works up (Ledum). 
Skin.--Black and blue. Itching, burning, eruption of small pimples. Crops of small boils 
(Ichthyol; Silica). Ecchymosis. Bed sores (Bovinine locally). Acne indurata, characterized by 
symmetry in distribution. 
Sleep.--Sleepless and restless when over tired. Comatose drowsiness; awakens with hot head; 
dreams of death, mutilated bodies, anxious and terrible. Horrors in the night. Involuntary stools 
during sleep. 
Fever.--Febrile symptoms closely related to typhoid. Shivering over whole body. Heat and 
redness of head, with coolness of rest of body. Internal heat; feet and hands cold. Nightly sour 
sweats. 
Modalities.-- Worse, least touch; motion; rest; wine; damp cold. Better, lying down, or with head 
low. 
Relationship.--Antidotes: Camph. 
Vitex trifolia.--Indian Arnica (Sprains and pains, headache in temples, pain in joints; pain in 
abdomen; pain in testicles). 
Complementary: Acon; Ipec. 
Compare: Acon; Bapt; Bellis; Hamam; Rhus; Hyperic. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. Locally, the tincture, but should never be applied hot or at all 
when abrasions or cuts are present. 

ARSENICUM ALBUM 
Arsenious Acid-Arsenic Trioxide 
A profoundly acting remedy on every organ and tissue. Its clear-cut characteristic symptoms and 
correspondence to many severe types of disease make its homeopathic employment constant and 
certain. Its general symptoms often alone lead to its successful application. Among these the all- 
prevailing debility, exhaustion, and restlessness, with nightly aggravation, are most important. 
Great exhaustion after the slightest exertion. This, with the peculiar irritability of fiber, gives the 
characteristic irritable weakness. Burning pains. Unquenchable thirst. Burning relieved by heat. 
Seaside complaints (Nat mur; Aqua Marina). Injurious effects of fruits, especially more watery 
ones. Gives quiet and ease to the last moments of life when given in high potency. Fear fright 
and worry. Green discharges. Infantile Kala-azar (Dr. Neatby). 
Ars should be thought of in ailments from alcoholism, ptomaine poisoning, stings, dissecting 
wounds, chewing tobacco; ill effects from decayed food or animal matter; odor of discharges is 
putrid; in complaints that return annually. Anzemia and chlorosis. Degenerative changes. Gradual 
loss of weight from impaired nutrition. Reduces the refractive index of blood serum (also China 
and Ferr phos). Maintains the system under the stress of malignancy regardless of location. 
Malarial cachexia. Septic infections and low vitality. 
Mind.—Great anguish and restlessness. Changes place continually. Fears, of death, of being left 
alone. Great fear, with cold sweat. Thinks it useless to take medicine. Suicidal. Hallucinations of 
smell and sight. Despair drives him from place to place. Miserly, malicious, selfish, lacks 
courage. General sensibility increased (Hep). Sensitive to disorder and confusion. 
Head.--Headaches relieves by cold, other symptoms worse. Periodical burning pains, with 
restlessness; with cold skin. Hemicrania, with icy feeling of scalp and great weakness. Sensitive 
head in open air. Delirium tremens; cursing and raving; vicious. Head is in constant motion. 
Scalp itches intolerably; circular patches of bare spots; rough, dirty, sensitive, and covered with 
dry scales; nightly burning and itching; dandruff. Scalp very sensitive; cannot brush hair. 
Eyes.--Burning in eyes, with acrid lachrymation. Lids red, ulcerated, scabby, scaly, granulated. 
(Edema around eyes. External inflammation, with extreme painfulness; burning, hot, and 
excoriating lachrymation. Comeal ulceration. /ntense photophobia; better external warmth. 
Ciliary neuralgia, with fine burning pain. 
Ears.--Skin within, raw and burning. Thin, excoriating, offensive otorrhoea. Roaring in ears, 
during a paroxysm of pain. 
Nose.--7hin, watery, excoriating discharge. Nose feels stopped up. Sneezing without relief. Hay- 
fever and coryza; worse in open air; better indoors. Burning and bleeding. Acne of nose. Lupus. 
Face.--Swollen, pale, yellow, cachectic, sunken, cold, and covered with sweat (Acetic acid). 
Expression of agony. Tearing needle-like pains; burning. Lips black, livid. Angry, circumscribed 
flush of cheeks. 
Mouth.--Unhealthy, easily-bleeding gums. Ulceration of mouth with dryness and burning heat. 
Epithelioma of lips. Tongue dry, clean, and red; stitching and burning pain in tongue, ulcerated 
with blue color. Bloody saliva. Neuralgia of teeth; feel long and very sore; worse after midnight; 
better warmth. Metallic taste. Gulping up of burning water. 
Throat.--Swollen, cedematous, constricted, burning, unable to swallow. Diphtheritic membrane, 
looks dry and wrinkled. 
Stomach.--Cannot bear the sight or smell of food. Great thirst; drinks much, but little at a time. 
Nausea, retching, vomiting, after eating or drinking. Anxiety in pit of stomach. Burning pain. 
Craves acids and coffee. Heartburn; gulping up of acid and bitter substances which seem to 
excoriate the throat. Long-lasting eructations. Vomiting of blood, bile, green mucus, or brown- 
black mixed with blood. Stomach extremely irritable; seems raw, as if torn. Gastralgia from 
slightest food or drink. Dyspepsia from vinegar, acids, ice-cream, ice-water, tobacco. Terrible 
fear and dyspneea, with gastralgia; also faintness, icy coldness, great exhaustion. Malignant 
symptoms. Everything swallowed seems to lodge in the cesophagus, which seems as if closed 
and nothing would pass. J// effects of vegetable diet, melons, and watery fruits generally. Craves 
milk. 
Abdomen.--Gnawing, burning pains like coals of fire; relieved by heat. Liver and spleen 
enlarged and painful. Ascites and anasarca. Abdomen swollen and painful. Pain as from a 
wound in abdomen on coughing. 
Rectum.--Painful, spasmodic protrusion of rectum. Tenesmus. Burning pain and pressure in 
rectum and anus. 
Stool.--Small, offensive, dark, with much prostration. Worse at night, and after eating and 
drinking; from chilling stomach, alcoholic abuse, spoiled meat. Dysentery dark, bloody, very 
offensive. Cholera, with intense agony, prostration, and burning thirst. Body cold as ice (Verat). 
Hemorrhoids burn like fire; relieved by heat. Skin excoriated about anus. 
Urine.--Scanty, burning, involuntary. Bladder as if paralyzed. A/buminous. Epithelial cells; 
cylindrical clots of fibrin and globules of pus and blood. After urinating, feeling of weakness in 
abdomen. Bright's disease. Diabetes. 
Female.--Menses too profuse and too soon. Burning in ovarian region. Leucorrheea, acrid, 
burning, offensive, thin. Pain as from red-hot wires; worse least exertion; causes great fatigue; 
better in warm room. Menorrhagia. Stitching pain in pelvis extending down the thigh. 
Respiratory.--Unable to lie down; fears suffocation. Air-passages constricted. Asthma worse 
midnight. Burning in chest. Suffocative catarrh. Cough worse after midnight; worse lying on 
back. Expectoration scanty, frothy. Darting pain through upper third of right lung. Wheezing 
respiration. Hemoptysis with pain between shoulders; burning heat all over. Cough dry, as from 
sulphur fumes; after drinking. 
Heart.--Palpitation, pain, dyspnoea, faintness. Irritable heart in smokers and tobacco-chewers. 
Pulse more rapid in morning (Sulph). Dilatation. Cyanosis. Fatty degeneration. Angina pectoris, 
with pain in neck and occiput. 
Back.--Weakness in small of back. Drawing in of shoulders. Pain and burning in back (Oxal ac). 
Extremities.--Trembling, twitching, spasms, weakness, heaviness, uneasiness. Cramps in calves. 
Swelling of feet. Sciatica. Burning pains. Peripheral neuritis. Diabetic gangrene. Ulcers on heel 
(Cepa; Lamium). Paralysis of lower limbs with atrophy. 
Skin.--Itching, burning, swellings; cedema, eruption, papular, dry, rough, scaly; worse cold and 
scratching. Malignant pustules. Ulcers with offensive discharge. Anthrax. Poisoned wounds. 
Urticaria, with burning and restlessness. Psoriasis. Scirrhus. Icy coldness of body. Epithelioma 
of the skin. Gangrenous inflammations. 
Sleep.--Disturbed, anxious, restless. Must have head raised by pillows. Suffocative fits during 
sleep. Sleeps with hands over head. Dreams are full of care and fear. Drowsy, sleeping sickness. 
Fever.--High temperature. Periodicity marked with adynamia. Septic fevers. Intermittent. 
Paroxysms incomplete, with marked exhaustion. Hay-fever. Cold sweats. Typhoid, not too early; 
often after Rhus. Complete exhaustion. Delirium; worse after midnight. Great restlessness. Great 
heat about 3 am. 
Modalities.-- Worse, wet weather, after midnight; from cold, cold drinks, or food. Seashore. 
Right side. Better from heat; from head elevated; warm drinks. 
Complementary: Rhus; Carbo; Phos. Thuja; Secale. Antidotal to lead poison. 
Antidotes: Opium; Carbo; China; Hepar; Nux. Chemical Antidotes: Charcoal; Hydrated 
Peroxide of Iron; Lime Water. 
Compare: Arsenic stibatum 3x (Chest inflammations of children, restlessness with thirst and 
prostration, loose mucous cough, oppression, hurried respiration, crepitant rales). Cenchris 
contortrix; Iod; Phosph; China; Verat alb; Carbo; Kali phos. Epilobium (intractable diarrhoea of 
typhoid). Hoang Nan. Atoxyl. Sodium arseniate 3x, sleeping sickness; commencing optic 
atrophy. Levico Water--(containing Ars, Iron and Copper of South Tyrol). Chronic and dyscratic 
skin diseases, chorea minor and spasms in scrofulous and anemic children. Favors assimilation 
and increases nutrition. Debility and skin diseases, especially after the use of higher potencies 
where progress seems suspended. Dose. Ten drops in wine glass of warm water 3 times a day 
after meals (Burnett). Sarcolatic acid (influenza with violent vomiting). 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. The very highest potencies often yield brilliant results. 
Low attenuations in gastric, intestinal, and kidney diseases; higher in neuralgias, nervous 
diseases, and skin. But if only surface conditions call for it, give the lowest potencies, 2x to 3x 
trit. Repeated doses advisable. 

ARSENICUM BROMATUM 
Bromide of Arsenic 
Has proven a great anti-psoric and anti-syphilitic remedy. Herpetic eruptions, syphilitic 
excrescences, glandular tumors and indurations, carcinoma, locomotor ataxia, and obstinate 
intermittents, and diabetes are all greatly influenced by this preparation. 
Face.--Acne rosacea, with violet papules on nose; worse in the spring. Acne in young people. 
Dose.--Tincture, two to four drops daily in water. In diabetes, three drops three times a day in a 
glass of water. 

ARSENICUM HYDROGENISATUM 
Arseniuretted Hydrogen 
The general action of Arsenic more accentuated. Aneemia. Anxiety; despair. Haematuria, with 
general blood disorganization. Hemorrhages from mucous membranes. Urine suppressed, 
followed by vomiting. Prepuce and glans covered with pustules and round superficial ulcers. 
Collapse. Coldness; prostration. Sudden weakness and nausea. Skin becomes dark brown. 
Head.--Violent vertigo on going upstairs. Eyes sunken; broad, blue circles around. Violent 
sneezing. Nose cold. Must be wrapped up with warm cloths. 
Mouth.--Tongue enlarged; deep, irregular ulcer; nodular swelling. Mouth hot and dry; little 
thirst. 
Dose.--Third potency. 

ARSENICUM IODATUM 
Iodide of Arsenic 
Is to be preferred for persistently irritating, corrosive discharges. The discharge irritates the 
membrane from which it flows and over which it flows. The discharge may be fetid, watery, and 
the mucous membrane is always red, angry, swollen; itches and burns. Influenza, hay-fever, old 
nasal catarrhs, and catarrh of middle ear. Swelling of tissues within the nose. Hypertrophied 
condition of eustachian tube and deafness. Senile heart, myocarditis and fatty degeneration. 
Pulse shotty. Chronic aortitis. Epithelioma of the lip. Cancer of breast after ulceration has set in. 
It seems probable that in Arsenic iod, we have a remedy most closely allied to manifestations of 
tuberculosis. In the early stages of tuberculosis, even though there is an afternoon rise in 
temperature, Ars jod is very effective. It will be indicated by a profound prostration, rapid, 
irritable pulse, recurring fever and sweats, emaciation; tendency to diarrhoea. Chronic 
pneumonia, with abscess in lung. Hectic; debility; night sweats. 
This remedy is also to be remembered in phthisis with hoarse, racking cough and profuse 
expectoration of a purulent nature, and attended with cardiac weakness, emaciation and general 
debility; in chronic, watery diarrhoea in phthisical subjects; in cases of emaciation with good 
appetite; in amenorrhcea, with anemic palpitation and dyspneea. In chronic pneumonia, when 
abscess is about to form. Great emaciation. Arteriosclerosis, myocardial degeneration and senile 
heart. Threatened pyeemia (Pyrog; Methyl blue). 
Head.--Vertigo, with tremulous feeling, especially in aged. 
Nose.--7hin, watery, irritating, excoriating discharge from anterior and posterior nares; 
sneezing. Hay-fever. Irritation and tingling of nose constant desire to sneeze (Pollanin). Chronic 
nasal catarrh; swollen nose; profuse, thick, yellow discharge; ulcers; membrane sore and 
excoriated. Aggravation by sneezing. 
Throat.--Burning in pharynx. Tonsils swollen. Thick membrane from fauces to lips. Breath 
fetid, glandular involvement. Diphtheria. Chronic follicular pharyngitis. 
Eyes and Ears.--Scrofulous ophthalmia. Otitis, with fetid, corrosive discharge. Thickening of 
tympanum. Burning, acrid coryza. 
Stomach.--Pain and pyrosis. Vomiting an hour after food. Nausea distressing. Pain in 
epigastrium. Intense thirst; water is immediately ejected. 
Respiratory.--Slight hacking cough, with dry and stopped-up nostrils. Pleuritis exudativa. 
Chronic bronchitis. Pulmonary tuberculosis. Pneumonia that fails to clear up. Broncho- 
pneumonia after grippe. Cough dry, with little difficult expectoration. Aphonia. 
Fever.--Recurrent fever and sweats. Drenching night-sweats. Pulse rapid, feeble, weak, 
irregular. Chilly, cannot endure cold. 
Skin.--Dry, scaly, itching. Marked exfoliation of skin in large scales, leaving a raw exuding 
surface beneath. Ichthyosis. Enlarged scrofulous glands. Venereal bubo. Debilitating night- 
sweats. Eczema of the beard; watery, oozing, itching; worse, washing. Emaciation. Psoriasis. 
Acne hard, shotty, indurated base with pustule at apex. 
Relationship.--Compare: Tuberculinum; Antimon iod. In hay-fever, compare: Aralia; 
Naphthalin; Rosa; Sang nit. 
Dose.--Second and third trituration. Ought to be prepared fresh and protected from light. 
Continued for some time. Clinically, it has been found advisable in tuberculosis to begin with 
about the 4x and gradually go lower to the second x trit, 5 grains 3 times a day. 

ARSENICUM METALLICUM 
Metallic Arsenic 
Arouses latent syphilis. Periodicity very marked; symptoms recur every two and three weeks. 
Weakness. Swollen feeling of parts. 
Head.--Low spirited, memory weak. Desire to be alone. Annoyed by visions, causing her to cry. 
Head feels too large. Left-sided headache up to eyes and into ears. Headache worse stooping and 
lying down. Edematous swelling of forehead. 
Face.--Red, itching, burning and bloated. Eyes swelled and watery, burn with coryza. Eyes 
weak, day and gas light unpleasant. 
Mouth.--The tongue coated white, and shows imprint of the teeth. Mouth sore and ulcerated. 
Abdomen.--Sore pain in liver goes through to shoulders and spine. Pain in spleen down to groin. 
Pain in breast extends to hip and spleen. Diarrhoea, burning watery stools with relief of pain. 
Dose.--Sixth potency. 

ARSENICUM SULPHURATUM FLAVUM 
Yellow Sulphuret of Arsenic. Orpiment 
(ARSENIC TRISULPH.) 
Needle pricks from within outwards in chest; also on forehead, right side. Sticking behind ear. 
Difficult respiration. Skin chafed about genitals. 
Leucoderma and squamous syphilides. Sciatica and pain around the knee. 
Relationship.--Arsenic sulph rub (influenza with intense catarrhal symptoms, great prostration 
and high temperature, purulent discharges, psoriasis, acne, and sciatica. Chilly even before a 
fire. Itching in various parts. Pellagra). 
Dose.--Third trituration. 

ARTEMISIA VULGARIS 
Mugwort 
Has some reputation as a remedy for epileptic conditions, and convulsive diseases of childhood 
and girls at puberty. Locally and internally is injurious to eyes. Petit mal. Epilepsy without aura; 
after fright and other violent emotions and after masturbation. Several convulsions close 
together. Somnambulism. Gets up at night and works, remembers nothing in the morning (Kali 
phos). 
Head.--Drawn back by spasmodic twitchings. Mouth drawn to left. Congestion of brain. 
Eyes.--Colored light produces dizziness. Pain and blurring of vision; better; rubbing; worse, 
using eyes. 
Female.--Profuse menses. Violent uterine contractions. Spasms during menses. 
Fever.--Profuse sweat, smelling like garlic. 
Relationship.--Compare: Absinth; Cina; Cicuta. 
Dose.--First to third potency. Said to act better when given with wine. 

ARUM DRACONTIUM 
Green Dragon 
A remedy for Pharyngitis with sore, raw and tender throat. 
Head.--Heavy; shooting pain in ears, aching pain behind right ear. 
Throat.--Dry, sore, worse swallowing. Raw and tender. Continued disposition to clear throat. 
Croupy, hoarse cough with sore throat. 
Urinary.--Irresistible desire to pass urine, burns and smarts. 
Respiratory.--Hoarseness; excess of mucus in larynx. Asthmatic at night. Expectoration thick, 
heavy. 
Relationship.--Arum Italicum (Brain-fag, with headache in occipital region). Arum maculatum 
(inflammation and ulceration of mucous membranes. Nasal irritation with polypus). 
Dose.--First potency. 

ARUM TRIPHYLLUM 
Jack-in-the-Pulpit 
Arum maculatum, Italicum, Dracontium, have the same action as the Triphyllum. They all 
contain an irritant poison, causing inflammation of mucous surfaces and destruction of tissue. 
Acridity is the keynote of the kind of action characteristic of Arum. 
Head.--Bores head in pillow. Headache from too warm clothing, from hot coffee. 
Eyes.--Quivering of upper eyelids, especially left. 
Nose.--Soreness of nostrils. Acrid, excoriating discharge, producing raw sores. Nose obstructed; 
must breathe through mouth. Boring in the nose. Coryza; discharge blood-streaked, watery. Nose 
completely stopped, with fluent, acrid discharge. Hay-fever, with pain over root of nose. Large 
scabs high up on right side of nose. Face feels chapped, as if from cold wind; feels hot. Constant 
picking at nose until it bleeds. 
Mouth.—Raw feeling at roof and palate. Lips and soft palate sore and burning. Lips chapped and 
burning. Corners of mouth sore and cracked. Tongue red, sore; whole mouth raw. Picking lips 
until they bleed. Saliva profuse, acrid, corroding. 
Throat.--Swelling of sub-maxillary glands. Constricted and swollen; burns; raw. Constant 
hawking. Hoarseness. Expectoration of much mucus. Lungs feel sore. Clergyman's sore throat. 
Voice uncertain, uncontrollable. Worse, talking, singing. 
Skin.--Scarlet rash; raw, bloody surfaces anywhere. Impetigo contagiosa. 
Modalities.--Worse, northwest wind; lying down. 
Relationship.--Compare: Ammon carb; Ailanthus; Cepa. 
Antidotes: Buttermilk; Acet ac; Puls. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. 

ARUNDO MAURITANICA 
Reed 
(ARUNDO) 
A remedy for catarrhal states. Hay-fever. 
Head.--Itching; falling off of hair; roots of hair painful. Pustules. Pain in occiput, extends to 
right ciliary region. Deep seated pain in sides of head. 
Ears.--Burning and itching in auditory canals. Eczema behind ears. 
Nose.--Hay-fever begins with burning and itching of palate and conjunctiva. Annoying itching in 
the nostrils and roof of the mouth (Wyethia). Coryza; loss of smell (Nat mur). Sneezing, itching 
of nostrils. 
Mouth.--Burning and itching; bleeding of gums. Ulcers and exfoliations in the commissures. 
Fissures in tongue. 
Stomach.--Coldness in stomach. Longing for acids. 
Abdomen.--Movement as from something alive. Flatulence pain at pubic region. 
Stool.--Greenish. Burning at anus. Diarrhoea of nursing children (Cham; Calc phos). 
Urine.--Burning. Red sediment (Lyc). 
Male.--Pain in spermatic cord after embrace. 
Female.--Menses too early and profuse. Neuralgic pains from face to shoulders and pubis. 
Desire with vaginal pruritus. 
Respiratory.--Dyspncea; cough; bluish expectoration. Burning and pain in nipples. 
Extremities.--Itching, burning; cedema of hands and feet. Burning and swelling of soles. 
Copious and offensive sweat of feet. 
Skin.--Eczema; itching and crawling, especially of chest, upper extremities. Fissures in fingers 
and heels. 
Relationship.--Compare: Anthoxantum-sweet vernal grass (a popular medicine for hay-fever and 
coryza). Lolium; Cepa; Sabad; Silica. 
Dose.--Third to sixth potency. 

ASA FOETIDA 
Gum of the Stinkasand 
(ASAFOETIDA) 
The flatulence and spasmodic contraction of stomach and cesophagus with reverse peristalsis are 
the most marked symptoms. In its selection, its relation to the hysterical and hypochondriacal 
patients, must be borne in mind. Besides these superficial symptoms, it has been found to affect 
favorably deep ulcerations, caries of bones, especially in the syphilitic organism; here the 
extreme sensitiveness and terrible throbbing, nightly pains, guiding to its use. 
Head.--Irritable; complains of her troubles; sensitive. Boring above eyebrows. Pressive pain 
from within outward. 
Eyes.--Orbital neuralgia; better, pressure and rest. Iritis and intraocular inflammations, with 
boring, throbbing pains at night. Stitches under left frontal eminences. Boring pains in and 
around eyes. Syphilitic iritis. Superficial corneal ulcer with digging pains; worse at night. 
Ears.--Offensive otorrhcea, with boring pains in mastoid bone. Mastoid disease with pain in 
temporal region with pushing out sensation. Offensive, purulent discharge. 
Nose.--Syphilitic ozzena, with very offensive purulent discharge. Caries of nasal bones (Aurum). 
Throat.--Globus hystericus. Ball rises in throat. Sensation as if peristaltic motion were reversed, 
and cesophagus were driven from stomach to throat. 
Stomach.--Great difficulty in bringing up wind. Flatulence and regurgitation of liquid. 
Hysterical flatulence. Great distention. Sensation of emptiness and weakness, with distention and 
beating in stomach and abdomen. Forcible eructation of gas. Pulsation in pit of stomach. Violent 
gastralgia; cutting and burning in stomach and region of diaphragm. Gurgling and rolling of 
wind, which escapes afterwards with loud and difficult eructation. 
Female.--Mamme turgid with milk in the unimpregnated. Deficient milk, with oversensitiveness. 
Rectum.--Distended, griping, with hunger. Obstinate constipation. Pain in perineum, as if 
something dull pressed out. diarrhea, extremely offensive, with meteorism, and regurgitation of 
food. 
Chest.--Spasmodic tightness, as if lungs could not be fully expanded. Palpitation more like a 
tremor. 
Bones.--Darting pain and caries in bones. Periosteum painful, swollen, enlarged. Ulcers affecting 
bones; thin, ichorous pus. 
Skin.--Itching, better scratching; ulcers painful on edges. Suppressed skin symptoms produce 
nervous disorders. 
Modalities.--Worse, at night; from tough; left side, during rest, warm applications. Better, open 
air; from motion, pressure. 
Relationship.--Antidotes: China; Mercur. 
Compare: Moschus; China; Mercur; Aurum. 
Dose.--Second to sixth potency. 

ASARUM EUROPAEUM 
European Snake-root 
(ASARUM EUROPUM) 
A remedy for nervous affections, loss of energy, with excessive erethism. Scratching on silk or 
linen or paper unbearable. Pains and spasmodic muscular actions. Nervous deafness and 
asthenopia. Cold shivers from any emotion. Feels as if parts were pressed together. Tension and 
contractive sensations. Always feels cold. 
Mind.--Thoughts vanish, with drawing pressure in forehead. Sensibility increased, even from 
mere imagination. 
Head.--Compressive pain. Tension of scalp; hair painful (China). Coryza, with sneezing. 
Eyes.--Feel stiff; burn; feel cold. Better, in cold air or water; worse, sunlight and wind. Darting 
pains in eyes after operations. Asthenopia. 
Ears.--Sensation as if plugged up. Catarrh with deafness. Heat of external ear. Noises. 
Stomach.--Loss of appetite, flatulence, eructation, and vomiting. Desire for alcoholic drinks. 
Smoking tobacco tastes bitter. Nausea; worse after eating. Clean tongue. Great faintness. 
Accumulation of cold, watery saliva. 
Rectum.--S¢rings of odorless, yellow mucus pass from bowels. Diarrhoea of tough mucus. 
Undigested stools. Prolapse. 
Female.--Menses too early, long lasting, black. Violent pain in small of back. Tenacious, yellow 
leucorrheea. 
Respiratory.--Nervous, hacking cough. Short respiration. 
Back.--Paralytic pain in muscles of nape of neck. Weakness, with staggering. 
Fever.--Chilliness, single parts get icy cold. Easily excited perspiration. 
Modalities.-- Worse, in cold dry weather; penetrating sounds. Better, from washing; in damp and 
wet weather. 
Relationship.--Asarum Canadensa-Wild Ginger (Colds, followed by amenorrhcea and gastro- 
enteritis. Suppressed colds). Compare: Jpecac, especially in diarrhoea; Silica; Nux; China. 
Dose.--Third to sixth potency. 

ASCLEPIAS CORNUTI 
Silk-weed 
(ASCLEPIAS SYRIACA) 
Seems to act especially on nervous system and urinary organs. A remedy for dropsy, hepatic, 
renal or cardiac and post-scarlatinal; causes diaphoresis and augments the urinary secretion. 
Acute rheumatic inflammation of large joints. Intermittent, pressing-down uterine pains. 
Head.--Feels as if a sharp instrument were thrust through from temple to temple. Constriction 
across forehead. Nervous headache, after suppressed perspiration, followed by increased urine, 
with increase of specific gravity. Headache from retention of effete matters in system. 
Relationship.--Compare: Asclepias Vincetoxicum.--Swallow-wart.--Cynanchum--(A gastro- 
intestinal irritant, producing vomiting and purgation).--(Useful in dropsy, diabetes, great thirst, 
profuse urination). 
Dose.--Tincture. 

ASCLEPIAS TUBEROSA 
Pleurisy-root 
Its action on the chest muscles is most marked and has been verified. Sick headache, with 
flatulence in stomach and bowels. Dyspepsia. Bronchitis and pleurisy come within its range. 
Catarrhal states from cold and damp weather. Irritation of larynx with huskiness; grip, with 
pleuritic pain. 
Respiratory.--Respiration painful, especially at base of left lung. Dry cough; throat constricted; 
causes pain in head and abdomen. Pain in chest; shooting downward from left nipple. A general 
eliminative remedy, acting specially on the sudoriparous glands. Chest pains are relieved by 
bending forward. Spaces between ribs close to sternum tender. Lancinating pain between 
shoulders. Catarrh, with frontal headache, and sticky yellow discharge. 
Stomach.--Fullness, pressure, weight. Flatulence after meals. Sensitive to tobacco. 
Rectum.--Catarrhal dysentery, with rheumatic pains all over. Stools smell like rotten eggs. 
Extremities.--Rheumatic joints give sensation as if adhesions being broken up on bending. 
Relationship.--Compare: Asclepias Incarnata-Swamp Milk Weed (Chronic gastric Catarrh and 
leucorrhcea. Dropsy with dyspnoea) Periploca groeca-One of the Asclepiades--(Cardiac tonic, 
acts on circulation and respiratory center, accelerating respiration in a ratio disproportionate to 
pulse). Bryonia; Dulc. 
Dose.--Tincture and first potency. 

ASIMINA TRILOBA 
American Papaw 
Produces a series of symptoms much like scarlet fever; sore throat, fever, vomiting, scarlet 
eruption; tonsils and submaxillary glands enlarged, with diarrhoea. Fauces red and swollen, face 
swollen. Desire for ice-cold things. Hoarseness. Languid, drowsy irritable. 
Acne. Itching in evening on undressing. 
Relationship.--Compare: Capsic; Bellad. 

ASPARAGUS OFFICINALIS 
Common Garden Asparagus 
Its marked and immediate action on the urinary secretion is well known. It causes weakness and 
cardiac depression with dropsy. Rheumatic pains. Especially about left shoulder and heart. 
Head.--Confused. Coryza, with profuse, thin fluid. Aching in forehead and root of nose. 
Migrainious morning headache with scotoma. Throat feels rough, with hawking copious 
tenacious mucus throat. 
Urine.--Frequent, with fine stitches in orifice of urethra; burning; of peculiar odor. Cystitis, with 
pus, mucus and tenesmus. Lithiasis. 
Heart.--Palpitation, with oppression of chest. Pulse intermits, weak, pain about left shoulder and 
heart, associated with bladder disturbances. Great oppression in breathing. Hydrothorax. 
Extremities.--Rheumatic pain in back, especially near shoulder and limbs. Pain at acromion 
process of left scapula under clavicle and down arm, with feeble pulse. 
Relationship.--Antidote: Acon; Apis. 
Compare: A/thae-Marshmallow--(contains asparagin; irritable bladder, throat and bronchi). 
Physalis Alkekengi. Digital; Sarsap; Spigelia. 
Dose.--Sixth potency. 

ASTACUS FLUVIATILIS 
Crawfish 
(CANCER ASTACUS) 
Skin symptoms most important. Urticaria. 
Skin.--Nettle-rash over whole body. Itching. Crusta lactea, with enlarged lymphatic glands. 
Erysipelas, and /iver affections with nettle-rash. Swelling of cervical glands. Jaundice. 
Fever.--Inward chilliness; very sensitive to air, worse uncovering; violent fever, with headache. 
Relationship.--Compare: Bombyx-Caterpillar-Itching of whole body (Urticaria). Apis; Rhus; Nat 
m; Homar. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. 

ASTERIAS RUBENS 
Red Starfish 
A remedy for the sycotic diathesis; flabby, lymphatic constitution, flabby with red face. 
Lancinating pains. Nervous disturbances, neuralgia, chorea, and hysteria come within the range 
of this remedy. Has been used for cancer of the breast, and has an unquestioned influence over 
cancer disease. Excitement in both sexes. 
Head.--Cannot bear contradiction. Shocks in brain; throbbing; heat in head, as if surrounded by 
hot air. 
Face.--Red. Pimples on side of nose, chin and mouth. Disposition to pimples at adolescence. 
Female.--Colic and other sufferings cease with appearance of flow. Breasts swell and pain in 
breasts; worse left. Ulceration with sharp pains, piercing to scapulze. Pains down left arm to 
fingers, worse motion. Excitement of sexual instinct with nervous agitation. 
Nodes and indurations of mammary gland, dull aching, neuralgic pain in this region (Conium). 
Chest.--Breasts swollen, indurated. Neuralgia of left breast and arm (Brom). Pain under sternum 
and in muscles of preecordial region. Left breast feels as if pulled inward, and pain extends over 
inner arm to end of little finger. Numbness of hand and fingers of left side. Cancer mamme even 
in ulcerative stage. Acute, lancinating pain. Axillary glands swollen hard and knotted. 
Nervous System.--Gait unsteady; muscles refuse to obey the will. Epilepsy; preceded by 
twitching over whole body. 
Stool.--Constipation. Ineffectual desire. Stool like olives. Diarrhoea, watery brown, gushing out 
in jet. 
Skin.--Destitute of pliability and elasticity. Itching spots. Ulcers, with fetid ichor. Acne. 
Psoriasis and herpes zoster worse left arm and chest. Enlarged axillary glands, worse, at night 
and in damp weather. 
Relationship.--Antidotes: Plumb; Zinc. 
Compare: Conium; Carbo; Ars; Condurango. 
Incompatible: Nux,; Coffea. 
Modalities.-- Worse, coffee, night; cold damp weather, left side. 
Dose.--Sixth potency. 

ASTRAGALUS MOLLISSIMUS 
Purple or Woolly Loco-weed 
Affects animals like effects of alcohol, tobacco and morphine in man. First stage, period of 
hallucination or mania with defective eye sight during which the animal performs all sorts of 
antics. After acquiring a taste for the plant it refuses every other kind of food. Second stage 
brings emaciation, sunken eyeballs, lusterless hair and feeble movements-after a few months dies 
as from starvation (U. S. Dept. Agriculture). Irregularities in gait-paralytic affections. Loss of 
muscular coordination. 
Head.--Fullness in right temple and upper jaw. Pain over left eyebrow. Painful facial bones. 
Dizzy. Pressive pain in temples. Pain and pressure in maxille. 
Stomach.--Weakness and emptiness. Burning in cesophagus and stomach. 
Extremities.--Purring sensation in right foot outer side from heel to toe. Icy coldness of left calf. 
Relationship.--Compare: Aragallus Lamberti-White Loco-Weed-Rattleweed; Baryta; Oxytropis. 
Dose.--Sixth potency. 

AURUM METALLICUM 
Metallic Gold 
Given full play, Aurum develops in the organism, by attacking the blood, glands, and bone, 
conditions bearing striking resemblance to mercurial and syphilitic infections; and it is just for 
such deteriorations of the bodily fluids and alterations in the tissues, that Aurum assumes great 
importance as a remedy. Like the victim of syphilis, mental states of great depression are 
produced by it. Hopeless, despondent, and great desire to commit suicide. Every opportunity is 
sought for self-destruction. Exostosis, caries, nightly bone-pains, especially cranial, nasal, and 
palatine. Glands swollen in scrofulous subjects. Palpitation and congestions. Ascites often in 
conjunction with heart affections. Frequently indicated in secondary syphilis and effects of 
mercury. This use of gold as an anti-venereal and anti-scrofulous remedy is very old, but has 
been well-nigh forgotten by the old school until rediscovered and placed on its scientific basis by 
homeopathy, and now it can never be lost again. When syphilis is implanted on the scrofulous 
constitution, we have one of the most intractable morbid conditions, and gold seems to be 
especially suited to the vile combination. Ennui. Ozena; sexual hyperesthesia. Arterio-sclerosis, 
high blood pressure; nightly paroxysms of pain behind sternum. Sclerosis of liver, arterial 
system, brain. Pining boys; low spirited, lifeless, weak memory. 
Mind.--Feeling of self-condemnation and utter worthlessness. Profound despondency, with 
increased blood pressure, with thorough disgust of life, and thoughts of suicide. Talks of 
committing suicide. Great fear of death. Peevish and vehement at least contradiction. 
Anthropophobia. Mental derangements. Constant rapid questioning without waiting for reply. 
Cannot do things fast enough. Oversensitiveness; (Staph) to noise, excitement, confusion. 
Head.--Violent pain in head; worse at night, outward pressure. Roaring in head. Vertigo. 
Tearing through brain to forehead. Pain in bones extending to face. Congestion to head. Boils on 
scalp. 
Eyes.--Extreme photophobia. Great soreness all about the eyes and into eyeballs. Double vision; 
upper half of objects invisible. Feel tense. Sees fiery objects. Violent pains in bones around eye 
(Asaf). Interstitial keratitis. Vascular cornea. Pains from without inward. Sticking pains inward. 
Trachoma with pannus. 
Ears.--Caries of ossicula and of mastoid. Obstinate fetid otorrhea after scarlatina. External 
meatus bathed in pus. Chronic nerve deafness; Labyrinthine disease due to syphilis. 
Nose.--Ulcerated, painful, swollen, obstructed. Inflammation of nose; caries; fetid discharge, 
purulent, bloody. Boring pains in nose; worse at night. Putrid smell from nose. Sensitive smell 
(Carbol ac). Horrible odor from nose and mouth. Knobby tip of nose. 
Mouth.--Foul breath in girls at puberty. Taste putrid or bitter. Ulceration of gums. 
Face.--Tearing in zygoma. Mastoid and other facial bones inflamed. 
Throat.--Stitches when swallowing; pain in glands. Caries of the palate. 
Stomach.--Appetite and thirst increased, with qualmishness. Swelling of epigastrium. Burning at 
stomach and hot eructations. 
Abdomen.--Right hypochondrium hot and painful. Incarcerated flatus. Swelling and suppuration 
of inguinal glands. 
Urine.--Turbid, like buttermilk, with thick sediment. Painful retention. 
Rectum.--Constipation, stools hard and knotty. Nocturnal diarrhoea, with burning in rectum. 
Male.--Pain and swelling of testicles. Chronic induration of testicles. Violent erections. Atrophy 
of testicles in boys. Hydrocele. 
Female.--Great sensitiveness of vagina. Uterus enlarged and prolapsed. Sterility; vaginismus. 
Heart.--Sensation as if the heart stopped beating for two or three seconds, immediately followed 
by a tumultuous rebound, with sinking at the epigastrium. Palpitation. Pulse rapid, feeble, 
irregular. Hypertrophy. High Blood Pressure-Valvular lesions of arterio-sclerotic nature (Aurum 
30) 
Respiratory.--Dyspneea at night. Frequent, deep breathing; stitches in sternum. 
Bones.--Destruction of bones, like secondary syphilis. Pain in bones of head, lumps under scalp, 
exostosis with nightly pains in bones. Caries of nasal, palatine and mastoid bones. Soreness of 
affected bones, better in open air, worse at night. 
Extremities.--All the blood seems to rush from head to lower limbs. Dropsy of lower limbs. 
Orgasm, as if blood were boiling in all veins. Paralytic, tearing pains in joints. Knees weak. 
Sleep.--Sleepless. Sobs aloud in sleep. Frightful dreams. 
Modalities.-- Worse, in cold weather when getting cold. Many complaints come on only in 
winter; from sunset to sunrise. 
Relationship.--Compare: Aur ars (chronic aortitis; lupus, phthisis in syphilitic headaches; also in 
anemia and chlorosis. It causes rapid increase of appetite). 
Aur brom (in headaches with neurasthenia, megrim, night terrors, valvular diseases). 
Aur mur (Burning, yellow, acrid leucorrhoea; heart symptoms, glandular affections; warts on 
tongue and genitals; sclerotic and exudative degeneration of the nervous system. Multiple 
sclerosis. Morvan's disease. Second trituration. Aur mur is a sycotic remedy, causing suppressed 
discharges to reappear. Valuable in climacteric haemorrhages from the womb. Diseases of frontal 
sinus. Stitching pain in left side of forehead. Weariness, aversion to all work. Drawing feeling in 
stomach. Cancer, tongue as hard as leather; induration after glossitis). 
Aur mur kali.--Double chloride of Potassium and gold (In uterine induration and hemorrhage). 
Aur iod (Chronic pericarditis, valvular diseases, arterio-sclerosis ozaena, lupus, osteitis, ovarian 
cysts, myomata uteri, are pathological lesions, that offer favorable ground for the action of this 
powerful drug. Senile paresis). 
Aur sulph (Paralysis agitans; constant nodding of the head; affections of mamme; swelling, pain, 
cracked nipples with lancinating pains). 
Also, Asafaet (in caries of bones of ears and nose). Syphilin: Kali iod; Hep; Merc; Mez; Nit ac; 
Phosph. 
Antidotes: Bell; Cinch; Cupr; Merc. 
Dose.--Third to thirtieth potency. Latter potency especially for increased blood pressure. 

AURUM MURIATICUM NATRONATUM 
Sodium Chloroaurate 
This remedy has a most pronounced effect on the female organs, and most of its clinical 
application has been based thereon. Has more power over uterine tumors than any other remedy 
(Burnett). Psoriasis syphilitica. Periosteal swelling on lower jaw. Swelling of testicle. High blood 
pressure due to disturbed function of nervous mechanism. Arterio-sclerosis Syphilitic ataxia. 
Tongue.--Burning; stitches, and induration. Old cases of rheumatism and gouty pains. Hepatic 
cirrhosis. Interstitial nephritis. 
Female.--Indurated cervix. Palpitation of young girls. Coldness in abdomen. Chronic metritis 
and prolapsus. Uterus fills up whole pelvis. Ulceration of neck of womb and vagina. 
Leucorrheea, with spasmodic contraction of vagina. Ovaries indurated. Ovarian dropsy. Sub- 
involution. Ossified uterus. 
Dose.--Second and third trituration. 

AVENA SATIVA 
Common Oat 
Has a selective action on brain and nervous system, favorably influencing their nutritive 
function. 
Nervous exhaustion, sexual debility, and the morphine habit call for this remedy in rather 
material dosage. Best tonic for debility after exhausting diseases. Nerve tremors of the aged; 
chorea, paralysis agitans, epilepsy. Post-diphtheritic paralysis. Rheumatism of heart. Colds. 
Acute coryza (20 drop doses in hot water hourly for a few doses). Alcoholism. Sleeplessness, 
especially of alcoholics. Bad effects of Morphine habit. Nervous states of many female troubles. 
Mind.--Inability to keep mind on any one subject. 
Head.--Nervous headache at menstrual period, with burning at top of head. Occipital headache, 
with phosphatic urine. 
Female.--Amenorrhoea and dysmenorrheea, with weak circulation. 
Male.--Spermatorrhoea; impotency; after too much indulgence. 
Extremities.--Numbness of limbs, as if paralyzed. Strength of hand diminished. 
Relationship.--Compare: A/falfa (General tonic similar to avena-also in scanty and suppressed 
urine). 
Dose.--Tincture ten to twenty drop doses, preferably in hot water. 

AZADIRACHTA INDICA 
Margosa Bark 
An afternoon fever and rheumatic pains in various parts are caused by this remedy. Pain in 
sternum and ribs, in back and shoulders and extremities; heat, pricking and aching in hands, 
especially palms, fingers, also toes. 
Head.--Forgetful; giddy on rising; head aches, scalp sensitive; eyes burn, pain in right eyeball. 
Fever.--Slight chill, afternoon fever, glowing heat in face, hands, and feet, copious sweat on 
upper part of body. 
Relationship.--Compare: Cedron; Natr mur; Arsenic. 